Title: 3
Article: 3-102

Content:
Arizona Legislature
The Arizona Revised Statutes have been updated to include the revised sections from the 56th Legislature, 1st Regular Session.  Please note that the next update of this compilation will not take place until after the conclusion of the 56th Legislature, 2nd Regular Session, which convenes in January 2024.
This online version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is primarily maintained for legislative drafting purposes and reflects the version of law that is effective on January 1st of the year following the most recent legislative session.  The official version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is published by Thomson Reuters.
3-102.Department organization
A. The Arizona department of agriculture is established consisting of the following divisions:
1. The animal services division, which is responsible for milk, dairy, livestock and aquaculture regulation, the state veterinarian, meat, poultry and egg inspection and performing the administrative functions authorized or contracted pursuant to law for the Arizona beef council.
2. The plant services division, which is responsible for entomological services.
3. The environmental services division, which is responsible for regulating seed, feed and agricultural chemicals, including pesticides and fertilizers, and for native plant protection.
4. The weights and measures services division, which is responsible for the inspection, testing and licensing of commercial weighing, measuring and counting devices.
5. The pest management division, which is responsible for regulating pest management and pest management services as defined in section 3-3601.
6. The citrus, fruit and vegetable division, which is responsible for the citrus, fruit and vegetable standardization and produce safety program under chapter 3, articles 2, 4, 4.1 and 4.3 of this title.
B. The following are established in addition to and separate from the divisions of the department:
1. The state agricultural laboratory.
2. The office of agriculture safety.
3. The office of inspections.
4. The office of commodity development and promotion.
C. The department shall have a central administrative service office providing:
1. Data processing, accounting and budgeting, records management, publications, property control and personnel services and training.
2. A program to cross-train appropriate personnel to enable them to perform similar functions or comparable work for different administrative units in the department.
© 2024 Arizona State Legislature. All Rights Reserved