Title: 3
Article: 3-109.01

Content:
Arizona Legislature
The Arizona Revised Statutes have been updated to include the revised sections from the 56th Legislature, 1st Regular Session.  Please note that the next update of this compilation will not take place until after the conclusion of the 56th Legislature, 2nd Regular Session, which convenes in January 2024.
This online version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is primarily maintained for legislative drafting purposes and reflects the version of law that is effective on January 1st of the year following the most recent legislative session.  The official version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is published by Thomson Reuters.
3-109.01.Agricultural consulting and training program
A. The director shall develop and implement an agricultural consulting and training program using on-site visits to establishments that are regulated under this title and title 5, chapter 1 to consult with and advise the establishment's owner, operator, lessee or independent contractor. The visits shall be:
1. Conducted only at the request of the owner, operator, lessee or independent contractor for consultation and advice on interpreting, applying or possible alternative methods of complying with statutes, rules, regulations or standards or other matters relating to compliance with either the requirements of this title and rules adopted pursuant to this title or the requirements of section 5-104 or 5-106 and rules adopted pursuant to those sections.
2. Limited to matters stated in the request.
B. After evaluating the request, if the director determines that an alternative means of providing consultation is more appropriate and equally effective, the director may provide the alternative means rather than the requested consultation.
C. The director shall make recommendations regarding solutions to matters within the scope of the consultation.
D. An on-site visit pursuant to this section is not an inspection or investigation for purposes of any provision of this title. No citation, violation or penalty may be issued, proposed or imposed resulting from or based on such a visit unless the visit discloses a violation causing imminent danger.
© 2024 Arizona State Legislature. All Rights Reserved