Title: 3
Article: 3-1003.02

Content:
Arizona Legislature
The Arizona Revised Statutes have been updated to include the revised sections from the 56th Legislature, 1st Regular Session.  Please note that the next update of this compilation will not take place until after the conclusion of the 56th Legislature, 2nd Regular Session, which convenes in January 2024.
This online version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is primarily maintained for legislative drafting purposes and reflects the version of law that is effective on January 1st of the year following the most recent legislative session.  The official version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is published by Thomson Reuters.
3-1003.02.Duties of the executive director and comptroller
A. The executive director shall be:
1. The chief executive and administrative officer of the Arizona coliseum and exposition center, including the Arizona state fair.
2. Responsible for organizing and prescribing the duties of all positions and departmental units in the Arizona coliseum and exposition center, including the coliseum manager and comptroller. The executive director shall:
(a) With the advice and consent of the board, appoint either the coliseum manager or the comptroller as deputy director to perform the functions, powers and duties of the executive director if the executive director is unable to act.
(b) Subject to title 41, chapter 4, article 4 and, as applicable, article 5, appoint or remove in the manner prescribed by law such personnel considered necessary for the efficient work of the Arizona coliseum and exposition center.
3. Required to make and submit to the board monthly reports covering all activities of the Arizona coliseum and exposition center.
B. In addition to other duties assigned by the executive director, the comptroller shall:
1. Act as the fiscal agent with complete authority to process all cash receipts.
2. Assume responsibility for the maintenance of satisfactory internal accounting controls which are required for the preservation of assets.
3. Control all books, records or other data required for preparation of a complete financial statement of the activities of the Arizona coliseum and exposition center.
4. Maintain cost factors and accounting records which are sufficient in scope to clearly reflect all profits and losses.

© 2024 Arizona State Legislature. All Rights Reserved