Title: 3
Article: 3-109.03

Content:
Arizona Legislature
The Arizona Revised Statutes have been updated to include the revised sections from the 56th Legislature, 1st Regular Session.  Please note that the next update of this compilation will not take place until after the conclusion of the 56th Legislature, 2nd Regular Session, which convenes in January 2024.
This online version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is primarily maintained for legislative drafting purposes and reflects the version of law that is effective on January 1st of the year following the most recent legislative session.  The official version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is published by Thomson Reuters.
3-109.03.Livestock operator fire and flood assistance grant program; requirements; fund; exemption; definition
A. The livestock operator fire and flood assistance grant program is established under the department to provide grant monies to landowners and lessees of a livestock operation of more than forty animals under normal operating conditions for infrastructure projects that are required as a result of a wildfire and associated flooding and that are either:
1. Not eligible for funding from another federal or state program.
2. Partially funded by another federal or state program.
B. The department shall:
1. Develop guidelines and criteria to implement the program, including an application process that includes a description of the intended use for the grant monies.
2. Award all grants pursuant to title 41, chapter 24.
3. Not grant more than fifty percent of the monies in the livestock operator fire and flood assistance fund for infrastructure projects on land in one county in any fiscal year.
4. Ensure that grants from the livestock operator fire and flood assistance program do not exceed more than:
(a) Fifty percent of the total costs of any infrastructure project.
(b) An aggregate of $250,000 per livestock operation for infrastructure projects that are required as a result of a single wildfire and that wildfire's associated flooding.
5. Require each grantee to submit to the department, within twelve months after receiving the grant, a written report detailing how the grant monies were used to achieve the infrastructure project described in the application.  If the infrastructure project takes longer than one year to complete, the grantee shall submit a written report to the department annually until the infrastructure project is complete.
6. On or before December 31 of each year, submit a report of the disposition of monies appropriated to the livestock operator fire and flood assistance fund each fiscal year to the governor, the president of the senate and the speaker of the house of representatives and shall provide a copy of this report to the secretary of state and to any person who requests a copy.
C. The department is exempt from title 41, chapter 6 with respect to adopting rules for the purposes of this section, except that the department shall provide for public notice and sixty days for public comment on the annual grant guidelines and criteria, including public hearings.
D. The livestock operator fire and flood assistance fund is established consisting of federal monies, legislative appropriations from the state general fund, public and private grants and private donations received for the purpose of providing grant monies to landowners and lessees of a livestock operation for infrastructure projects pursuant to this section. The department shall administer the fund.  Monies in the fund are continuously appropriated. On notice from the department, the state treasurer shall invest and divest monies in the fund as provided by section 35-313, and monies earned from investment shall be credited to the fund. Monies in the fund are exempt from the provisions of section 35-190 relating to lapsing of appropriations.
E. The department may use up to five percent of the monies appropriated to the livestock operator fire and flood assistance fund in any fiscal year for the purposes of administering the program.
F. For the purposes of this section, "infrastructure" includes wells, buildings, fences, pipelines, spring and water developments, corrals and other essential components to a livestock operation.
© 2024 Arizona State Legislature. All Rights Reserved