Title: 3
Article: 3-1082

Content:
Arizona Legislature
The Arizona Revised Statutes have been updated to include the revised sections from the 56th Legislature, 1st Regular Session.  Please note that the next update of this compilation will not take place until after the conclusion of the 56th Legislature, 2nd Regular Session, which convenes in January 2024.
This online version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is primarily maintained for legislative drafting purposes and reflects the version of law that is effective on January 1st of the year following the most recent legislative session.  The official version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is published by Thomson Reuters.
3-1082.Cotton research and protection council; membership; terms; vacancy; compensation
A. The cotton research and protection council is established and is composed of nine active cotton producers to be appointed by the governor.  The members shall be appointed as follows:
1. Two each who are residents of:
(a) Maricopa county.
(b) Pinal county.
(c) The Yuma, La Paz and Mohave counties area.
2. One each who is a resident of:
(a) Pima county.
(b) Cochise county.
(c) The Graham and Greenlee counties area.
B. The governor may consult with any recognized cotton producer organizations in this state in determining appointments to the council.
C. The term of office of council members is three years and expires on December 31 of the appropriate year, but a member may continue to serve until a successor is appointed and assumes office. A member is eligible for a second consecutive three-year term. A member who completes a second consecutive three-year term is ineligible for reappointment for at least one year. On the expiration of a term of a member or in the event of a vacancy, a successor shall be appointed by the governor.
D. If the office of any council member becomes vacant, the council shall notify the governor and the governor shall appoint a person to fill the remainder of the term.  The office of any member shall be deemed vacant under any of the following circumstances:
1. The member is no longer an active cotton producer.
2. The member is unable to perform the duties of office.
3.  The member has been absent from three consecutive council meetings if the absences have not been excused by the council.
4. The member has ceased to reside in the county or county area that the member was appointed to represent.
E. Members of the council are not eligible to receive compensation but are eligible for reimbursement of expenses pursuant to title 38, chapter 4, article 2.

© 2024 Arizona State Legislature. All Rights Reserved