Title: 3
Article: 3-1001

Content:
Arizona Legislature
The Arizona Revised Statutes have been updated to include the revised sections from the 56th Legislature, 1st Regular Session.  Please note that the next update of this compilation will not take place until after the conclusion of the 56th Legislature, 2nd Regular Session, which convenes in January 2024.
This online version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is primarily maintained for legislative drafting purposes and reflects the version of law that is effective on January 1st of the year following the most recent legislative session.  The official version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is published by Thomson Reuters.
3-1001.Arizona exposition and state fair board; members; appointment; terms; vacancy; removal; oath; bond; meetings; report
A. There shall be an Arizona exposition and state fair board consisting of five members appointed by the governor. Each member shall serve for a term of five years. No more than three of such members shall be of the same political party. No more than two of such members shall be from any one county. One of the members shall be knowledgeable and have not less than five years' experience in accounting, one member shall be knowledgeable and have not less than five years' experience in finance or business management and another member shall be knowledgeable and have not less than five years' experience in agriculture and another member shall be knowledgeable and have not less than five years' experience in the field of promotions or public relations. Appointment to fill a vacancy resulting otherwise than from expiration of term shall be for the unexpired term. A vacancy shall result when a member is absent from two consecutive regular meetings, except in the event of sickness of the member. A board member may be removed by the governor for cause.
B. Each member of the board shall take the oath of office.
C. The board shall hold no less than four regular meetings each year and special meetings as designated by the chairman. In May of each year the board shall elect a chairman and vice-chairman. The executive director shall designate an employee of the board to act as its recording secretary.
D. Within three weeks after the end of each calendar month the board shall prepare a report signed by the chairman which shall be transmitted to the governor and the joint legislative budget committee. The report shall contain full financial data for the preceding month, including funds received and disbursed, assets and liabilities, profit and loss, and a full and detailed account of its transactions. In addition, the report shall include a copy of the minutes of all regular and special meetings.
© 2024 Arizona State Legislature. All Rights Reserved