Title: 3
Article: 3-1090

Content:
Arizona Legislature
The Arizona Revised Statutes have been updated to include the revised sections from the 56th Legislature, 1st Regular Session.  Please note that the next update of this compilation will not take place until after the conclusion of the 56th Legislature, 2nd Regular Session, which convenes in January 2024.
This online version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is primarily maintained for legislative drafting purposes and reflects the version of law that is effective on January 1st of the year following the most recent legislative session.  The official version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is published by Thomson Reuters.
3-1090.Recommendation for termination of council; election
A. The council shall put to a vote of the cotton producers in this state the question of whether the council should recommend to the legislature that the council be terminated if either of the following occurs:
1. The council, by a two-thirds vote of its membership, determines that it is no longer in the best interest of the cotton industry of this state to continue the council and its programs.
2. On receipt by the council of a petition calling for the election signed by ten per cent or more of the contributing cotton producers in this state in the previous year, which shall be signed not more than six months before its presentation to the council.
B. The ballot for an election called pursuant to subsection A shall be in such form as to record a yes or no answer to the question: "Shall the cotton research and protection council recommend to the legislature that the council and its programs be discontinued and terminated?" If a majority of those producers voting votes yes, the council shall recommend to the legislature that the council be terminated. If less than a majority of the producers voting votes yes, another election shall not be conducted for at least two years. The council shall pay the expenses necessary to carry out the election.
© 2024 Arizona State Legislature. All Rights Reserved