Title: 3
Article: 3-109.02

Content:
Arizona Legislature
The Arizona Revised Statutes have been updated to include the revised sections from the 56th Legislature, 1st Regular Session.  Please note that the next update of this compilation will not take place until after the conclusion of the 56th Legislature, 2nd Regular Session, which convenes in January 2024.
This online version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is primarily maintained for legislative drafting purposes and reflects the version of law that is effective on January 1st of the year following the most recent legislative session.  The official version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is published by Thomson Reuters.
3-109.02.Office of commodity development and promotion; fees; commodity promotion fund; definition
A. The office of commodity development and promotion shall provide for programs to stimulate, educate, encourage and foster the production and consumption of Arizona agricultural products domestically and abroad.
B. The office may provide authorized or contracted administrative functions for councils and commissions established by law.
C. The director may collect a fee, which the director shall establish by rule, for the issuance of certificates of free sale. The amount of the fee shall not exceed the actual cost of preparing the certificate of free sale. All monies collected from the fees shall be deposited, pursuant to sections 35-146 and 35-147, in the commodity promotion fund.
D. The commodity promotion fund is established. The fund consists of all monies collected pursuant to any promotional service provided to industry under this section and not supported by general fund appropriation, and monies received pursuant to section 3-107, subsection B, paragraph 8.  The director shall administer the fund.  On notice from the director, the state treasurer shall invest and divest monies in the fund as provided by section 35-313, and monies earned from investment shall be credited to the fund. Monies in the fund are:
1. Continuously appropriated to the department for the purposes of this section.
2. Exempt from the provisions of section 35-190 relating to lapsing of appropriations.
E. For the purposes of this section, "certificate of free sale" means a document that authenticates a commodity that is generally and freely sold in domestic channels of trade.

© 2024 Arizona State Legislature. All Rights Reserved