Title: 3
Article: 3-1201

Content:
Arizona Legislature
The Arizona Revised Statutes have been updated to include the revised sections from the 56th Legislature, 1st Regular Session.  Please note that the next update of this compilation will not take place until after the conclusion of the 56th Legislature, 2nd Regular Session, which convenes in January 2024.
This online version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is primarily maintained for legislative drafting purposes and reflects the version of law that is effective on January 1st of the year following the most recent legislative session.  The official version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is published by Thomson Reuters.
3-1201.Definitions
In this chapter, unless the context otherwise requires:
1. "Aquaculture" means the controlled propagation, growth and harvest of aquatic animals or plants, including fish, amphibians, shellfish, mollusks, crustaceans, algae and vascular plants.
2. "Associate director" means the associate director of the division.
3. "Division" means the animal services division of the Arizona department of agriculture.
4. "Equine" means horses, mules, burros and asses.
5. "Livestock" means cattle, equine, sheep, goats and swine, except feral pigs.
6. "Livestock officer" means an animal health and welfare officer, animal health and welfare inspector or investigator employed by the department.
7. "Poultry" means any domesticated bird, whether live or dead, and includes chickens, turkeys, ducks, geese, guineas, ratites and squabs.
8. "Range" means every character of lands, enclosed or unenclosed, outside of cities and towns, upon which livestock is permitted by custom, license or permit to roam and feed.
9. "Range livestock" means livestock customarily permitted to roam upon the ranges of the state, whether public domain or in private control, and not in the immediate actual possession or control of the owner although occasionally placed in enclosures for temporary purposes.
10. "Ratite" means ostriches, emus, rheas and cassowaries.

© 2024 Arizona State Legislature. All Rights Reserved