Title: 3
Article: 3-1205

Content:
Arizona Legislature
The Arizona Revised Statutes have been updated to include the revised sections from the 56th Legislature, 1st Regular Session.  Please note that the next update of this compilation will not take place until after the conclusion of the 56th Legislature, 2nd Regular Session, which convenes in January 2024.
This online version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is primarily maintained for legislative drafting purposes and reflects the version of law that is effective on January 1st of the year following the most recent legislative session.  The official version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is published by Thomson Reuters.
3-1205.Control of animal diseases; violation; classification
A. When advised of the occurrence of a disease of animals or poultry which constitutes a threat to the livestock or poultry industries, the director may issue lawful orders and adopt rules he deems necessary.
B. The state veterinarian may enter any place where a suspected animal or poultry may be and take custody of the animal or poultry for the purpose of determining the presence of a contagious, infectious or communicable disease.
C. The director may direct the state veterinarian and agency employees to:
1. Establish quarantines and define their boundaries.
2. Destroy animals or poultry when necessary to prevent the spread of any infectious, contagious or communicable disease.
3. Appoint appraisers for the purpose of indemnifying owners of animals or poultry destroyed.
4. Control the movement of animals or poultry, animal or poultry products and agricultural products which may be directly related to dissemination of diseases affecting the livestock or poultry industries.
D. Any person who violates any lawful order or rule issued pursuant to the provisions of subsection A, or breaks any quarantine established by the state veterinarian for the prevention and control of disease among livestock or poultry, is guilty of a class 2 misdemeanor.

© 2024 Arizona State Legislature. All Rights Reserved