Title: 3
Article: 3-1239

Content:
Arizona Legislature
The Arizona Revised Statutes have been updated to include the revised sections from the 56th Legislature, 1st Regular Session.  Please note that the next update of this compilation will not take place until after the conclusion of the 56th Legislature, 2nd Regular Session, which convenes in January 2024.
This online version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is primarily maintained for legislative drafting purposes and reflects the version of law that is effective on January 1st of the year following the most recent legislative session.  The official version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is published by Thomson Reuters.
3-1239.Termination of council
A. The council may be terminated as provided in this section. A referendum among the state's producers shall be conducted by the council:
1. If the council determines that it is no longer in the best interest of the beef industry of the state to continue the existence of the council and its programs; or
2. Upon the receipt by the council of a petition for such a referendum signed by five hundred or more of the state's contributing producers, which shall be signed not more than six months prior to its presentation to the council.
B. In either such event the council shall conduct a referendum among the contributing producers of the state. The ballot shall be in such form as to record a yes or no answer to the question: "Shall the existence of the Arizona beef council and its programs, as authorized by title 3, chapter 11, article 2, Arizona Revised Statutes, be discontinued and terminated?" If the council finds that of those producers who voted fifty-one per cent or more voted in favor of discontinuing and terminating the council and its programs, the council shall make a finding to that effect. It shall declare the existence of the council discontinued and terminated at the end of the fiscal year in which the referendum is held. If less than fifty-one per cent of the producers who voted in the referendum election favor termination of the council, no further referendum shall be conducted for at least two years. The council shall pay the expenses necessary to carry out the referendum.
C. If the council is to be terminated, the council shall pay all debts incurred by it. Any unexpended and unencumbered funds remaining in the account of the council shall be paid into the state general fund and credited to the department in the same manner as brand inspection fees.
© 2024 Arizona State Legislature. All Rights Reserved