Title: 3
Article: 3-1207

Content:
Arizona Legislature
The Arizona Revised Statutes have been updated to include the revised sections from the 56th Legislature, 1st Regular Session.  Please note that the next update of this compilation will not take place until after the conclusion of the 56th Legislature, 2nd Regular Session, which convenes in January 2024.
This online version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is primarily maintained for legislative drafting purposes and reflects the version of law that is effective on January 1st of the year following the most recent legislative session.  The official version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is published by Thomson Reuters.
3-1207.Cooperation with the United States; limitations
A. In addition to other powers and duties conferred by law, the director may cooperate with the animal and plant health inspection service of the United States department of agriculture, or other agency of the United States vested with similar powers and duties, in:
1. The control of contagious or infectious diseases of animals, and contagious or infectious diseases of poultry.
2. The national animal identification system.
B. Inspectors of the animal and plant health inspection service may exercise all rights and authority granted to livestock officers, but they do not have enforcement powers granted to livestock officers.
C. Premises registration data, animal identification data and animal tracking data collected by the director from voluntary participants pursuant to the national animal identification system are not subject to disclosure pursuant to title 39.
D. The director may not submit to the federal government any premises registration data, animal identification data, animal tracking data, producer information or other information relating to animal identification unless the submission is either:
1. Required by state law.
2. Authorized by a voluntary participant in the national animal identification system.

© 2024 Arizona State Legislature. All Rights Reserved