Title: 3
Article: 3-1233

Content:
Arizona Legislature
The Arizona Revised Statutes have been updated to include the revised sections from the 56th Legislature, 1st Regular Session.  Please note that the next update of this compilation will not take place until after the conclusion of the 56th Legislature, 2nd Regular Session, which convenes in January 2024.
This online version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is primarily maintained for legislative drafting purposes and reflects the version of law that is effective on January 1st of the year following the most recent legislative session.  The official version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is published by Thomson Reuters.
3-1233.Powers and duties of council
A. The council shall:
1. Receive and disburse funds under the provisions of this article to be used in administering the provisions of this article.
2. Annually elect a chairman from among its members. No chairman shall succeed himself more than once.
3. Elect a secretary-treasurer who may be from among its members.
4. Meet regularly every three months and at such other times as called by the chairman or when requested by five or more members of the council.
5. Keep a permanent record of its proceedings and prepare for the governor and the beef industry an annual report of its activities, receipts and expenditures.
B. The council may:
1. Conduct or contract for scientific research to discover and develop improved marketing methods for beef and beef products, including programs of consumer education and protection.
2. Disseminate reliable information, founded upon research; showing uses or probable uses of beef and beef products.
3. Study state and federal legislation with respect to tariffs, duties, reciprocal trade agreements, import quotas and other matters concerning the beef industry.
4. Sue and be sued as a council, without individual liability, for acts of the council within the scope of the powers and duties conferred upon it by this article.
5. Enter into contracts to carry out the purpose of the council as provided in this article, including contracts for promotion of beef and beef products and development of new markets through such promotion.
6. Appoint advisory groups composed of representatives from organizations, institutions or businesses related to or interested in the welfare of the beef industry.
7. Make grants to research agencies for financing special or emergency studies, or for purchase or acquisition of facilities necessary to carry out the purposes of the council.
8. Appoint subordinate officers and employees of the council and prescribe their duties and fix their compensation.
9. Cooperate with any local, state or nationwide organization or agency engaged in work or activities similar to or related to those of the council, and enter into contracts with such organizations or agencies for carrying on joint programs.
10. Act jointly and in cooperation with the state or federal government, or both, or any agency thereof in the administration of any program of the government or of a governmental agency deemed by the council as beneficial to the beef industry of this state, and expend funds in connection therewith.
11. Adopt rules and regulations necessary to carry out the provisions of this article.
12. Adopt, rescind, modify or amend all proper regulations, orders and resolutions for the exercise of its powers and duties.
© 2024 Arizona State Legislature. All Rights Reserved