Title: 3
Article: 3-1209

Content:
Arizona Legislature
The Arizona Revised Statutes have been updated to include the revised sections from the 56th Legislature, 1st Regular Session.  Please note that the next update of this compilation will not take place until after the conclusion of the 56th Legislature, 2nd Regular Session, which convenes in January 2024.
This online version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is primarily maintained for legislative drafting purposes and reflects the version of law that is effective on January 1st of the year following the most recent legislative session.  The official version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is published by Thomson Reuters.
3-1209.Counterfeiting
A. No brand manufacturer, printer, or other person, firm or corporation shall cast, print, lithograph or otherwise make any device containing any official mark or simulation thereof, or any label bearing any such mark or simulation, or any form of official certificate or simulation thereof, except as authorized by the department.
B. No person, firm, or corporation shall:
1. Forge any official device, mark or certificate.
2. Without authorization from the department use any official device, mark, or certificate or simulation thereof, or alter, detach, deface or destroy any official device, mark or certificate.
3. Contrary to the rules prescribed by the director, fail to use or detach, deface or destroy any official device, mark or certificate.
4. Knowingly possess, without promptly notifying the department or its representative, any official device or any counterfeit, simulated, forged or improperly altered official certificate or any device or label or any carcass of any animal or part or product thereof bearing any counterfeit, simulated, forged or improperly altered official mark.
5. Knowingly make any false statement in any shipper's certificate or other nonofficial or official certificate provided for in the rules prescribed by the director.
6. Knowingly represent that any article has been inspected and passed or exempted under this chapter when in fact it has not been so inspected and passed or exempted.

© 2024 Arizona State Legislature. All Rights Reserved