Title: 3
Article: 3-1344

Content:
Arizona Legislature
The Arizona Revised Statutes have been updated to include the revised sections from the 56th Legislature, 1st Regular Session.  Please note that the next update of this compilation will not take place until after the conclusion of the 56th Legislature, 2nd Regular Session, which convenes in January 2024.
This online version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is primarily maintained for legislative drafting purposes and reflects the version of law that is effective on January 1st of the year following the most recent legislative session.  The official version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is published by Thomson Reuters.
3-1344.Ownership and hauling certificates for equines; inspection; exemption; cancellation; fees
A. Except as otherwise provided in this article, owners or persons in charge of equines may obtain ownership and hauling certificates from the department.
B. The director shall adopt inspection fees by rule pursuant to title 41, chapter 6, for the processing of ownership and hauling certificates and replacement ownership and hauling certificates.  If a person requests an ownership and hauling certificate or a replacement ownership and hauling certificate, the department shall collect from the owner or person in charge of equines an inspection fee for deposit in the equine inspection fund pursuant to section 3-1345.01.
C. Notwithstanding other provisions of this title, ownership and hauling certificates issued pursuant to subsection A of this section shall be valid for the life of the animal or until transferred pursuant to section 3-1345.
D. An owner or the authorized agent of an owner of a thoroughbred that will be used solely for horse racing or race horse breeding purposes and that has a certificate of registration or a facsimile of a certificate of registration issued by the jockey club of Lexington, Kentucky or a predecessor organization or a quarter horse that will be used solely for horse racing or race horse breeding purposes and that has a certificate of registration or a facsimile of a certificate of registration issued by the American quarter horse association of Amarillo, Texas is exempt from this section and all other statutes and rules that require an ownership and hauling certificate issued under this section with respect to that horse. This subsection applies to an unweaned foal if his or her dam has the certificate of registration required by this subsection. On the sale or disposition of a horse that is exempt from the ownership and hauling certificate requirements under this subsection, the seller or an authorized agent of the seller shall either:
1. Properly execute and transfer the certificate of registration required under this subsection to the buyer.
2. Complete and date an equine transfer request form issued by the department and give the form and a notarized bill of sale to the buyer. Within thirty days after the transfer of ownership, the buyer shall complete the buyer's portion of the equine transfer request form and shall comply with subsections A and B of this section.
E. Ownership and hauling certificates issued with respect to any equine shall be surrendered to the department or its authorized representative if any of the following occurs:
1. The equine dies.
2. The equine is sold and shipped out of state.
3. The equine is sent to slaughter or is disposed of for humane reasons.

© 2024 Arizona State Legislature. All Rights Reserved