Title: 3
Article: 3-1337

Content:
Arizona Legislature
The Arizona Revised Statutes have been updated to include the revised sections from the 56th Legislature, 1st Regular Session.  Please note that the next update of this compilation will not take place until after the conclusion of the 56th Legislature, 2nd Regular Session, which convenes in January 2024.
This online version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is primarily maintained for legislative drafting purposes and reflects the version of law that is effective on January 1st of the year following the most recent legislative session.  The official version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is published by Thomson Reuters.
3-1337.Service charge and inspection fee; self-inspection
A. Livestock officers and inspectors shall collect from the person in charge of cattle inspected a service charge of three dollars plus an inspection fee of twenty-five cents per head for making inspections for the transfer of ownership, sale, slaughter or transportation of cattle.
B. Livestock officers and inspectors shall collect from the person in charge of sheep inspected a service charge of three dollars plus an inspection fee of five cents per head for making inspections for the transfer of ownership, sale, slaughter or transportation of sheep.
C. Livestock officers and inspectors shall collect from the person in charge of dairy cattle inspected a service charge of three dollars plus an inspection fee of twenty-five cents per head for making inspections for the transfer of ownership, sale, slaughter or transportation of dairy cattle.
D. The division may approve self-inspection by movers of livestock and feedlots and dairies pursuant to section 3-1203, subsection D.  Movement shall be documented on simple and concise self-inspection forms that are provided by the department and that include only the following information:
1. The certificate number.
2. The department contact information.
3. For out-of-state shipments, official identification.
4. For dairy cattle, back tag numbers.
5. The amount collected pursuant to section 3-1236.
6. The number and description of livestock.
7. The livestock owner's or agent's name, signature and address.
8. The transporter's name.
9. The location of the place and date of shipment.
10. The destination or buyer's name and address.
11. For branded animals, the animal's registered brand, including brand number, location and expiration date.
E. Movers of livestock and feedlots and dairies that utilize self-inspection shall purchase the self-inspection book from the department. The director, in consultation with the department of agriculture advisory council established pursuant to section 3-104, may establish a fee for the self-inspection book.
F.  Any fees collected by the livestock officers and inspectors and by movers of livestock and feedlots and dairies utilizing self-inspection shall be remitted to the division.  Any fees incurred by movers of livestock and feedlots and dairies shall be remitted to the department within ten days after the end of the month in which the livestock were inspected.

© 2024 Arizona State Legislature. All Rights Reserved