Title: 3
Article: 3-1348

Content:
Arizona Legislature
The Arizona Revised Statutes have been updated to include the revised sections from the 56th Legislature, 1st Regular Session.  Please note that the next update of this compilation will not take place until after the conclusion of the 56th Legislature, 2nd Regular Session, which convenes in January 2024.
This online version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is primarily maintained for legislative drafting purposes and reflects the version of law that is effective on January 1st of the year following the most recent legislative session.  The official version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is published by Thomson Reuters.
3-1348.Equine trader permit
A. The division shall issue an equine trader permit to an applicant who pays a fee of one hundred dollars and who complies with the requirements of this section.  The permit is valid for one year from the date of issuance and may be renewed on payment of an annual renewal fee of one hundred dollars and on compliance with the requirements of this section.
B. Applications for initial and renewal permits shall contain the following information:
1. The full name of the applicant.
2. The applicant's business and residence addresses.
3. The date and place of the applicant's birth.
4. Information concerning equine trading permits held in other states and their status.
5. Information concerning any felony convictions within seven years before the date of application, including any convictions subsequently set aside or resulting in restoration of civil rights.
6. Any other information which the division may require.
C. The director may adopt rules specifying additional information which may be reasonably required to be submitted on an application for an equine trader permit or renewal of a permit to allow the division to determine the fitness of the applicant to receive a permit or renewal of a permit.
D. The director may deny, refuse to renew, suspend or revoke an equine trader permit pursuant to title 41, chapter 6, article 10 for any of the following reasons:
1. A violation of any provision of this title or of any rule adopted pursuant to this title.
2. A violation of any provision of title 44, chapter 10, article 7.
3. The revocation or suspension for cause of an equine trader permit issued by the division or by any other state within five years before the date of application.
4. A conviction of a felony involving a crime related to the equine trade occupation within seven years before the date of application for an equine trader permit.
E.  Except as provided in section 41-1092.08, subsection H, final decisions of the director are subject to judicial review pursuant to title  12, chapter  7, article 6.
© 2024 Arizona State Legislature. All Rights Reserved