Title: 3
Article: 3-1345

Content:
Arizona Legislature
The Arizona Revised Statutes have been updated to include the revised sections from the 56th Legislature, 1st Regular Session.  Please note that the next update of this compilation will not take place until after the conclusion of the 56th Legislature, 2nd Regular Session, which convenes in January 2024.
This online version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is primarily maintained for legislative drafting purposes and reflects the version of law that is effective on January 1st of the year following the most recent legislative session.  The official version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is published by Thomson Reuters.
3-1345.Transfer or issuance of ownership and hauling certificates; fees
A. The seller of any equine who has a valid ownership and hauling certificate for such animal and the buyer of such animal, except a person who has been issued an equine trader's permit pursuant to section 3-1348, may both complete and date a transfer request form. One copy of the transfer request form shall be given to the seller.
B. Within thirty days of the transfer of ownership of any equine, provided for in subsection A of this section, the buyer may forward to the division the ownership and hauling certificate, the original copy of the completed transfer request form and the transfer fee. The director shall adopt transfer fees by rule pursuant to title 41, chapter 6, for processing transfer request forms. Upon receipt, the division shall deposit the fees in the equine inspection fund pursuant to section 3-1345.01 and issue a new ownership and hauling certificate to the transferee and a blank transfer request form. Such certificate shall be valid for the life of the animal or until sold.
C. An equine trader permittee who purchases an equine in this state must receive from the seller a bill of sale or the ownership and hauling certificate and the original and buyer's copy of a transfer request form with the seller's portion completed.
D. An equine trader permittee shall sign and enter his permit number on the transfer document when he transfers ownership of an equine.
© 2024 Arizona State Legislature. All Rights Reserved