Title: 3
Article: 3-145

Content:
Arizona Legislature
The Arizona Revised Statutes have been updated to include the revised sections from the 56th Legislature, 1st Regular Session.  Please note that the next update of this compilation will not take place until after the conclusion of the 56th Legislature, 2nd Regular Session, which convenes in January 2024.
This online version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is primarily maintained for legislative drafting purposes and reflects the version of law that is effective on January 1st of the year following the most recent legislative session.  The official version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is published by Thomson Reuters.
3-145.Mandatory and voluntary certification; sampling procedures; application; expiration; renewal
A. A person who establishes, conducts or maintains a laboratory that provides agricultural laboratory services to agencies or departments of this state or its political subdivisions shall apply for a certificate from the state agricultural laboratory as proof that the laboratory so certified is in compliance with rules adopted by the director for the certification of such laboratories. Any other person providing agricultural laboratory services may apply for such a certificate.
B. A person providing guaranteed laboratory analysis information to distributors of commercial feed and whole seeds for consumption by livestock shall be certified under this section.
C. An individual who collects samples for the state agricultural laboratory or for any certified agricultural laboratory shall follow the sampling procedures established by the director.
D. A certified laboratory shall report test results only to the party who provided the original sample and, on request, to the state agricultural laboratory or as required by section 3-2611.01.
E. A person who desires a certificate pursuant to this section shall file with the state agricultural laboratory an application for a certificate accompanied by the application fee.
F. The application shall be on a form prescribed by the assistant director and furnished by the state agricultural laboratory and shall contain:
1. The name and location of the laboratory.
2. The name of the person owning the laboratory and the name of the person supervising the laboratory.
3. A description of the programs, services and functions provided by the laboratory.
4. Such other information as the assistant director deems necessary to carry out the purposes of this section.
G. The assistant director shall issue a certificate to an applicant if the assistant director is satisfied that the applicant has complied with the rules prescribing standards for certified laboratories.
H. A certificate expires one year after the date of issuance and shall be renewed upon payment of the renewal application fee as prescribed in section 3-146 and continued compliance with this article and the applicable rules.

© 2024 Arizona State Legislature. All Rights Reserved