Title: 3
Article: 3-141

Content:
Arizona Legislature
The Arizona Revised Statutes have been updated to include the revised sections from the 56th Legislature, 1st Regular Session.  Please note that the next update of this compilation will not take place until after the conclusion of the 56th Legislature, 2nd Regular Session, which convenes in January 2024.
This online version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is primarily maintained for legislative drafting purposes and reflects the version of law that is effective on January 1st of the year following the most recent legislative session.  The official version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is published by Thomson Reuters.
3-141.Definitions
In this article, unless the context otherwise requires:
1. "Agricultural laboratory services" means the following services:
(a) Providing a residue analysis of:
(i) Raw, processed or manufactured agricultural commodities and products.
(ii) Soil.
(iii) Plant or animal tissue.
(iv) Commercial feed as defined in section 3-2601.
(v) Fertilizer as defined in section 3-262.
(vi) Water used for agricultural purposes.
(b) Providing a nutrient analysis of:
(i) Raw, processed or manufactured agricultural commodities and products.
(ii) Soil.
(iii) Plant or animal tissue.
(iv) Commercial feed as defined in section 3-2601, and including whole seeds and any feed mixed or unmixed used in the feeding of animals.
(v) Fertilizer as defined in section 3-262.
(c) Providing a quantitative analysis of ingredients in pesticide formulations.
(d) Providing a germination and purity analysis of planting seed.
(e) Providing the identification of insects, parasites, bacteria and pathogenic organisms in raw, processed or manufactured agricultural products and commodities and in plant or animal tissue.
(f) Providing the services necessary to carry out section 3-1203, subsection A.
(g) Providing any other services compatible with or incidental to those laboratory services provided pursuant to sections 3-142 and 3-143.
2. "Assistant director" means the assistant director for the state agricultural laboratory.

© 2024 Arizona State Legislature. All Rights Reserved