Title: 3
Article: 3-1452

Content:
Arizona Legislature
The Arizona Revised Statutes have been updated to include the revised sections from the 56th Legislature, 1st Regular Session.  Please note that the next update of this compilation will not take place until after the conclusion of the 56th Legislature, 2nd Regular Session, which convenes in January 2024.
This online version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is primarily maintained for legislative drafting purposes and reflects the version of law that is effective on January 1st of the year following the most recent legislative session.  The official version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is published by Thomson Reuters.
3-1452.Feed lot operator's license; applications; fees; exemption
A. It is unlawful for any person, except as provided in subsection B of this section, to operate a feed lot within the state without having first obtained a license from the division authorizing and permitting such operation.
B. The owner or operator of any beef cattle feed lot having less than five hundred head of beef cattle at any one time may apply for and obtain a license for feed lot operations if he chooses and elects to come under the terms and provisions of this article, but the licensing for operations of less than five hundred head shall not be required.
C. Application for a beef cattle feed lot license shall be filed with the division on a form prescribed and furnished by the department. Upon the filing of such an application and upon payment of the required fees, the division shall issue a beef cattle feed lot license to such applicant, provided the application discloses information assuring the division that the operation of such feed lot will be conducted in accordance with the standards set forth in this article, and with rules adopted by the director.
D. Feed lot licenses shall be issued for the term of one year, to expire on June 30 following the date of issuance. An application for an initial license and for renewal of a license shall be accompanied by a fee in accordance with the following schedule:
1. Under five hundred head of beef cattle, twenty-five dollars.
2. From five hundred to not exceeding three thousand head of beef cattle, fifty dollars.
3. Three thousand one to not exceeding ten thousand head of beef cattle, one hundred dollars.
4. More than ten thousand head of beef cattle, one hundred fifty dollars.
E. If an original feed lot license is to expire within six months after date of issuance, only fifty per cent of the license fee prescribed in this section shall be required.
© 2024 Arizona State Legislature. All Rights Reserved