Title: 3
Article: 3-143

Content:
Arizona Legislature
The Arizona Revised Statutes have been updated to include the revised sections from the 56th Legislature, 1st Regular Session.  Please note that the next update of this compilation will not take place until after the conclusion of the 56th Legislature, 2nd Regular Session, which convenes in January 2024.
This online version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is primarily maintained for legislative drafting purposes and reflects the version of law that is effective on January 1st of the year following the most recent legislative session.  The official version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is published by Thomson Reuters.
3-143.Assistant director; powers and duties
A. The assistant director for the state agricultural laboratory is responsible for the administration, operation and control of the state agricultural laboratory.
B. The assistant director shall have all the following qualifications:
1. A master's degree in chemistry or its equivalent in practical experience as determined by the director.
2. Experience in agricultural laboratory testing or experience in a control laboratory of an agency that regulates feeds, fertilizers or pesticides.
3. Supervisory experience.
C. The assistant director shall enforce rules established pursuant to section 3-147:
1. For the voluntary certification of laboratories providing agricultural laboratory services to persons of this state.
2. For the mandatory certification of laboratories providing agricultural laboratory services to agencies and departments of this state or its political subdivisions, including those laboratories that are a part of a state agency or department or a political subdivision of this state.
3. Prescribing testing, documentation and quality assurance procedures and requirements.
D. The assistant director may contract with and assist other divisions and offices in the department and other departments and agencies of the state, local and federal governments in the furtherance of the purposes of this article, including contracting to provide laboratory services.

© 2024 Arizona State Legislature. All Rights Reserved