Title: 3
Article: 3-164

Content:
Arizona Legislature
The Arizona Revised Statutes have been updated to include the revised sections from the 56th Legislature, 1st Regular Session.  Please note that the next update of this compilation will not take place until after the conclusion of the 56th Legislature, 2nd Regular Session, which convenes in January 2024.
This online version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is primarily maintained for legislative drafting purposes and reflects the version of law that is effective on January 1st of the year following the most recent legislative session.  The official version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is published by Thomson Reuters.
3-164.Listing property on register
A. The commission shall provide written notification to the owner, and applicant if different from the owner, of its decision on listing the property on the register.
B. If the commission lists the property on the register:
1. The commission shall include, with the notice under subsection A of this section, a certificate signed by the secretary of state, the president of the senate, the speaker of the house of representatives and the chairperson of the commission describing the property and designating it as Arizona heritage agriculture property.
2. The owner of the property may identify the property as Arizona heritage agriculture property using signs, monuments, plaques, letterheads and other identifiers.
C. The designation of property as Arizona heritage agriculture property:
1. Is an honorific recognition only, and does not confer any other right or privilege except as provided by this article.
2. Does not affect the right to use, convey, encumber, alter or exercise any other right of ownership at the owner’s discretion, and no person may impair or affect the owner’s property rights based on the designation of the property as Arizona heritage agriculture property.
3. Terminates if the property no longer meets the requirements of section 3-162, subsection C.  The commission may require the owner to file an annual affidavit that the property continues to qualify under this article.


© 2024 Arizona State Legislature. All Rights Reserved