Title: 3
Article: 3-1701

Content:
Arizona Legislature
The Arizona Revised Statutes have been updated to include the revised sections from the 56th Legislature, 1st Regular Session.  Please note that the next update of this compilation will not take place until after the conclusion of the 56th Legislature, 2nd Regular Session, which convenes in January 2024.
This online version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is primarily maintained for legislative drafting purposes and reflects the version of law that is effective on January 1st of the year following the most recent legislative session.  The official version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is published by Thomson Reuters.
3-1701.Report of killed or crippled livestock; inspection and removal; violation; classification; definition
A. Every railroad in this state, upon discovery of livestock killed or crippled upon a section of the railroad, shall immediately make a report thereof to a livestock officer or to any other person designated by the department for the purpose of receiving the report.
B. The report required by subsection A shall designate the place where the crippled or killed livestock is located. The department or a person designated by it shall promptly inspect the stock, notify the owner and make a report of the inspection including therein the age, color, sex, approximate weight, marks and brands of the stock. One copy of the report shall be transmitted by a livestock officer or inspector to the division, one to the owner of the stock and one to the railroad. The copy of the report transmitted to the railroad shall be posted by it on Monday of each week at the section house or station house nearest the scene of the accident and shall be kept posted for thirty days.
C. Dead livestock shall not be destroyed by the railroad until the inspection required by this section is made, but if the inspection is not made within twenty-four hours after transmittal of the report by the railroad, the railroad may bury the dead stock and shall thereupon promptly notify the division or the person designated by it of the place of burial so that inspection may be made.
D. A railroad which fails to make and post any report required by this section is guilty of a petty offense.
E. The term "railroad" as used in this article includes any person, firm or corporation operating a railroad.
© 2024 Arizona State Legislature. All Rights Reserved