Title: 3
Article: 3-2081

Content:
Arizona Legislature
The Arizona Revised Statutes have been updated to include the revised sections from the 56th Legislature, 1st Regular Session.  Please note that the next update of this compilation will not take place until after the conclusion of the 56th Legislature, 2nd Regular Session, which convenes in January 2024.
This online version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is primarily maintained for legislative drafting purposes and reflects the version of law that is effective on January 1st of the year following the most recent legislative session.  The official version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is published by Thomson Reuters.
3-2081.Licenses for sale or exchange of meat or poultry; fee; records kept by licensee; expiration of license; violation; classification
A. A person, firm or corporation that engages in the business of meat or poultry processing, wholesaling, storing in or for intrastate commerce, transporting in intrastate commerce, distributing, jobbing or brokering other than canned meat or poultry or canned meat or poultry products, except a home consumer, shall, before offering such meat or poultry or meat or poultry food products for sale or exchange, after complying with the minimum requirements of the director, procure a license from the division, for which he shall pay an annual license fee of ten dollars for each place of business, store, stand, market or vehicle in or from which the meat is to be sold or exchanged and shall keep a record of the name and address of each person from whom the licensee obtained such meat or meat food products, the date of purchase, quantity and kind of meat purchased and time and place of purchase. Upon request by an inspector or peace officer, the licensee shall exhibit the record to him. The record shall be retained for one year.
B. All licenses issued under the provisions of this article shall expire on December 31 of the year in which issued.
C. The following persons, firms and corporations shall keep such records as will fully and correctly disclose all transactions involved in their businesses and all persons, firms and corporations subject to such requirements shall at all reasonable times upon notice by a duly authorized representative of the department afford such representative access to their places of business and opportunity to examine the facilities and inventory and to take reasonable samples of their inventory upon payment of the fair market value:
1. Any persons, firms or corporations that engage in the business of slaughtering any cattle, sheep, swine, goats, horses, mules or other equines or preparing, freezing, packaging or labeling any carcasses or parts or products of carcasses of any such animals for use as human food or animal food.
2. Any persons, firms or corporations that engage in the business of buying or selling as meat brokers, wholesalers or otherwise or transporting or storing or importing any carcasses or parts or products of carcasses of any such animals.
3. Any persons, firms or corporations that engage in business as renderers or engage in the business of buying, selling, transporting or importing any dead, dying, disabled or diseased cattle, sheep, swine, goats, horses, mules or other equines or parts of the carcasses of any such animals that died otherwise than by slaughter.
D. Any record required to be maintained by this section shall be maintained for such period of time as the director may by rules prescribe.
E. A person violating any provision of this section is guilty of a class 2 misdemeanor.
© 2024 Arizona State Legislature. All Rights Reserved