Title: 3
Article: 3-2011

Content:
Arizona Legislature
The Arizona Revised Statutes have been updated to include the revised sections from the 56th Legislature, 1st Regular Session.  Please note that the next update of this compilation will not take place until after the conclusion of the 56th Legislature, 2nd Regular Session, which convenes in January 2024.
This online version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is primarily maintained for legislative drafting purposes and reflects the version of law that is effective on January 1st of the year following the most recent legislative session.  The official version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is published by Thomson Reuters.
3-2011.Slaughter of animals by producer or owner for own use; inspection of hides; violation; classification
A. Producers or owners who slaughter livestock, sheep, goats, swine or equines for the purpose of using the meat for food for themselves, their immediate family or employees, and not for sale, shall not be required to procure a special permit or a license to slaughter as required by this article, but the whole hide of all livestock so slaughtered, except swine, shall be hung in a conspicuous place on the premises of the producer or owner and kept there until the hide has been inspected and marked or tagged by a livestock officer. The meat from the livestock so slaughtered shall not be removed from the premises of the producer or owner without being stamped "not for sale" by the livestock officer.
B. A person other than the owner or producer who slaughters livestock described in subsection A shall keep the whole hide of all livestock so slaughtered except swine until the hide has been inspected and marked or tagged by a livestock officer and the meat from the livestock so slaughtered has been stamped "not for sale" by the livestock officer.
C. Every person who slaughters livestock of another as described in subsection B shall be licensed pursuant to rules of the director.
D. A person failing to comply with this section is guilty of a class 2 misdemeanor.
© 2024 Arizona State Legislature. All Rights Reserved