Title: 3
Article: 3-209

Content:
Arizona Legislature
The Arizona Revised Statutes have been updated to include the revised sections from the 56th Legislature, 1st Regular Session.  Please note that the next update of this compilation will not take place until after the conclusion of the 56th Legislature, 2nd Regular Session, which convenes in January 2024.
This online version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is primarily maintained for legislative drafting purposes and reflects the version of law that is effective on January 1st of the year following the most recent legislative session.  The official version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is published by Thomson Reuters.
3-209.Quarantines; notice to common carriers; duty to hold for inspection; certificate of release; inspection
A. When the director believes the importation from designated countries, states or localities of specified varieties of plants, fruits, vegetables, seeds, soil or agricultural or horticultural products is dangerous to this state or to the agricultural or horticultural industry of this state because of the likelihood of infestation with crop pests or diseases, the director may declare a quarantine against all varieties from those places.  Common carriers shall be immediately notified of the declaration of quarantine and are prohibited from transporting quarantined products or pests and diseases associated with the quarantined products from the designated places into the state.
B. Any person who brings or causes to be brought into the state plants, fruits, vegetables or agricultural or horticultural products is subject to either of the following procedures:
1. The inspector may issue a certificate of release to the person at a properly signed border inspection station.
2. The inspector may instruct the person, at a properly signed border inspection station, to hold the shipment at the place where it is to be received, without unnecessarily moving or placing it where it may be harmful, for immediate inspection of the inspector, and shall not deliver the shipment to the person entitled to it until furnished with a certificate of release by the inspector.
C. If a person does not obtain a certificate of release as prescribed by subsection B, the person shall, immediately after arrival in this state, notify the inspector of the place where the shipment will be received, and hold it, without unnecessarily moving or placing it where it may be harmful for immediate inspection of the inspector, and shall not deliver the shipment to the person entitled to it until furnished with a certificate of release by the inspector.
D. The director, the associate director or the inspector may enter into any place where the products are received, as described in subsection C, for the purpose of making the investigation or examination.
© 2024 Arizona State Legislature. All Rights Reserved