Title: 3
Article: 3-2043

Content:
Arizona Legislature
The Arizona Revised Statutes have been updated to include the revised sections from the 56th Legislature, 1st Regular Session.  Please note that the next update of this compilation will not take place until after the conclusion of the 56th Legislature, 2nd Regular Session, which convenes in January 2024.
This online version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is primarily maintained for legislative drafting purposes and reflects the version of law that is effective on January 1st of the year following the most recent legislative session.  The official version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is published by Thomson Reuters.
3-2043.Assignment of inspectors
Slaughtering establishments granted state meat inspection service shall notify the chief veterinary meat inspector of their hours of slaughter, and the chief veterinary meat inspector shall assign inspectors to said establishments to conduct meat inspection. The chief veterinary meat inspector may assign one inspector to conduct inspection at two or more slaughtering establishments having state meat inspection service where the animals slaughtered are less than one hundred head per week at each establishment. The hours of the day and the days of the week shall be satisfactorily arranged with the slaughtering establishments so that the inspector is present at each establishment during all periods of slaughter. Slaughtering establishments wishing to slaughter in excess of eight hours in any one day or slaughter on holidays or Sundays may do so, and the chief veterinary meat inspector shall assign an inspector to conduct meat inspection. Slaughtering establishments shall pay fees to the department when such services are provided commensurate with actual wages incurred. No slaughtering establishment with state meat inspection service is permitted to slaughter any cattle, sheep, swine, goats, horses, mules or other equines unless there is an assigned inspector on the premises of the establishment during all periods of slaughter.
© 2024 Arizona State Legislature. All Rights Reserved