Title: 3
Article: 3-201

Content:
Arizona Legislature
The Arizona Revised Statutes have been updated to include the revised sections from the 56th Legislature, 1st Regular Session.  Please note that the next update of this compilation will not take place until after the conclusion of the 56th Legislature, 2nd Regular Session, which convenes in January 2024.
This online version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is primarily maintained for legislative drafting purposes and reflects the version of law that is effective on January 1st of the year following the most recent legislative session.  The official version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is published by Thomson Reuters.
3-201.Definitions
In this article, unless the context otherwise requires:
1. "Associate director" means the associate director of the division.
2. "Diseases" includes any fungus, bacterium, virus or other organism of any kind and any unknown cause that is or may be found to be injurious, or likely to be or to become injurious to any domesticated or cultivated plant, or to the product of any such plant.
3. "Division" means the plant services division of the Arizona department of agriculture.
4. "Noxious weed" means any species of plant that is, or is liable to be, detrimental or destructive and difficult to control or eradicate and shall include any species that the director, after investigation and hearing, shall determine to be a noxious weed.
5. "Nursery" means real property or other premises on or in which nursery stock is propagated, grown or cultivated or from which source nursery stock is offered for distribution or sale.
6. "Nursery stock" includes all trees, shrubs, vines, cacti, agaves, succulents, herbaceous plants whether annuals, biennials or perennials, bulbs, corms, rizomes, roots, decorative plant material, flowers, fruit pits or seeds, cuttings, buds, grafts, scions and other plants intended for sale, gift or propagation, either cultivated or collected in the wild, except seeds as regulated by article 2 of this chapter, fruit and vegetables regulated by chapter 3, articles 2 and 4 of this title and cotton plants.
7. "Pests" includes all noxious weeds, insects, diseases, mites, spiders, nematodes and other animal or plant organisms found injurious, or likely to be or to become injurious, to any domesticated, cultivated, native or wild plant, or to the product of any such plant.
8. "Plant" or "crop" includes every kind of vegetation, wild or domesticated, and any part thereof, as well as seed, fruit or other natural product of such vegetation.
9. "Shipment" includes anything that is brought into the state or that is transported within the state and that may be the host or may contain or carry or may be susceptible of containing, carrying or having present on, in or about it any plant pest or plant disease.

© 2024 Arizona State Legislature. All Rights Reserved