Title: 3
Article: 3-2041

Content:
Arizona Legislature
The Arizona Revised Statutes have been updated to include the revised sections from the 56th Legislature, 1st Regular Session.  Please note that the next update of this compilation will not take place until after the conclusion of the 56th Legislature, 2nd Regular Session, which convenes in January 2024.
This online version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is primarily maintained for legislative drafting purposes and reflects the version of law that is effective on January 1st of the year following the most recent legislative session.  The official version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is published by Thomson Reuters.
3-2041.Chief veterinary meat inspector; appointment of inspectors; qualifications; bond
A. The associate director, with the approval of the director, shall employ an Arizona licensed veterinarian as chief veterinary meat inspector. The chief veterinary meat inspector must have at least four years' experience of meat inspection work in slaughtering establishments.  The duties of the chief veterinary meat inspector shall be to supervise the state meat inspection service and enforce and efficiently carry out the provisions of this chapter, so as to assure the public that only pure and wholesome meats are offered for sale.
B. Upon qualification by the chief veterinary meat inspector, the associate director, with the director's approval, shall employ veterinary meat inspectors and lay meat inspectors who shall be responsible to the chief veterinary meat inspector and who shall conduct antemortem and postmortem inspections, enforce sanitary requirements, perform other duties necessary to conduct proper meat inspection and carry out the provisions of this chapter. The director may also assign personnel from the office of inspections to perform inspections under this chapter under the supervision of the chief veterinary meat inspector.
C. An inspector assigned to a slaughtering establishment with state meat inspection service shall neither be related to the management of such establishment nor have a financial interest therein.
D. Each inspector shall take the oath of office.
© 2024 Arizona State Legislature. All Rights Reserved