Title: 3
Article: 3-206

Content:
Arizona Legislature
The Arizona Revised Statutes have been updated to include the revised sections from the 56th Legislature, 1st Regular Session.  Please note that the next update of this compilation will not take place until after the conclusion of the 56th Legislature, 2nd Regular Session, which convenes in January 2024.
This online version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is primarily maintained for legislative drafting purposes and reflects the version of law that is effective on January 1st of the year following the most recent legislative session.  The official version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is published by Thomson Reuters.
3-206.Destruction of noninfected crops on abatement of nuisance; procedure; hearing; evidence
A. If the plants constituting the nuisance consist of growing crops, trees, orchards, vines or shrubbery, and the infestation or infection is by a plant pest or disease of such a nature, or if the location of the plants with respect to other plants not infested or infected is a part of the same crop, or is growing immediately adjacent to the infested or infected plants, and the director believes it is impractical to abate the nuisance, and to suppress, eradicate or control the crop pest or disease without destroying the whole of the crop, trees, orchard, vines or shrubbery of which the infested or infected plants are a part, or without serious injury to uninfected or uninfested plants, the director may adopt proper measures to control, eradicate and suppress the crop pest or disease, although it causes a destruction of the crops, trees, orchards, vines and shrubbery or an injury to uninfected or uninfested plants that are a part of the crops, trees, orchards, vines or shrubbery.
B. Before proceeding with abatement of the nuisance or suppressing, eradicating or controlling the crop pest or disease, the director shall serve written notice on the owner or person in charge of the premises on which the nuisance is located, specifying the infestation or infection and directing the person to appear at a hearing to be held at a time and place within the county where the nuisance exists, and show cause why the crop, trees, orchard, vines or shrubbery should not be destroyed in whole or in part.
C. The notice shall be personally served on the person, if the person is found within the county where the nuisance exists, at least five days before the hearing. If the person is a nonresident or cannot be found in the county, the notice shall be published in a newspaper published in the county for at least seven days before the hearing, and in addition, a copy thereof shall be posted in a conspicuous place on or at the premises involved for a like period.
D. Any interested party may appear at the hearing and be heard, either in person or by attorney. The hearing officer shall preserve a record of all evidence introduced, and at the conclusion of the hearing shall enter an order conforming to the hearing officer's findings.

© 2024 Arizona State Legislature. All Rights Reserved