Title: 3
Article: 3-2046

Content:
Arizona Legislature
The Arizona Revised Statutes have been updated to include the revised sections from the 56th Legislature, 1st Regular Session.  Please note that the next update of this compilation will not take place until after the conclusion of the 56th Legislature, 2nd Regular Session, which convenes in January 2024.
This online version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is primarily maintained for legislative drafting purposes and reflects the version of law that is effective on January 1st of the year following the most recent legislative session.  The official version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is published by Thomson Reuters.
3-2046.Meat inspection rules; violation; classification
A. The director shall adopt reasonable rules necessary to assure that all meat and meat products subject to inspection under this article which are to be sold or distributed for human consumption are free from unwholesome, poisonous or other foreign substances and filth, insects or disease causing organisms. The rules shall provide reasonably necessary measures governing the production, processing, labeling, storing, handling and transportation of such products. The rules shall prescribe minimum standards for the sanitary facilities and conditions which shall be maintained at any plant, packing house or abattoir and in any truck or other vehicle in which meat or meat products are produced, processed, stored, handled or transported.
B. The director upon the advice of the chief veterinary meat inspector shall adopt reasonable rules, including, but not limited to, what the antemortem and postmortem inspection shall consist of, to carry out the purposes of this chapter. The rules shall conform so far as possible to the rules governing meat inspection of the United States department of agriculture. To the extent deemed appropriate by the director the rules may incorporate by reference existing federal meat inspection regulations, but in no case shall the rules exceed the requirements of the United States department of agriculture. All rules adopted to implement this section shall be adopted in compliance with title 41, chapter 6.
© 2024 Arizona State Legislature. All Rights Reserved