Title: 3
Article: 3-2054

Content:
Arizona Legislature
The Arizona Revised Statutes have been updated to include the revised sections from the 56th Legislature, 1st Regular Session.  Please note that the next update of this compilation will not take place until after the conclusion of the 56th Legislature, 2nd Regular Session, which convenes in January 2024.
This online version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is primarily maintained for legislative drafting purposes and reflects the version of law that is effective on January 1st of the year following the most recent legislative session.  The official version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is published by Thomson Reuters.
3-2054.Requirements for meat processors
A. Establishment of meat processors licensed to prepare and offer for sale meat or meat food products shall meet the following requirements:
1. The floors shall be of suitable finish so that they may be kept clean and sanitary.
2. There shall be washable walls.
3. All outside windows and doors shall be screened.
4. There shall be adequate potable water conforming with the minimum requirements of the department of health services.
5. Employees shall be provided with adequate toilet and hand washing facilities with both hot and cold running water and separate facilities when both sexes are employed.
6. There shall be an adequate sewage disposal system of such type that it shall not be a breeding place for flies and shall not constitute a hazard or endanger public health and it shall conform with the minimum requirements of the department of health services.
B. All such processing establishments shall be maintained in a sanitary condition and the plant and premises shall be subject to inspection by the chief veterinary meat inspector or his deputies at any time during their operation, whether it be by day or night, and to every part of such establishment. At least one inspection shall be made daily and additional inspections may be made if it is deemed necessary. If such premises are found to be in an unsanitary condition or the operations are being conducted in an unsanitary manner so as to endanger public health, the associate director may suspend or revoke the license of the processing establishment as provided in section 3-1206. Meat processors are not subject to overtime fees for inspections under this section.
C. Any meat processor other than a slaughtering establishment which wishes to be assigned an establishment number shall make a written application to the division for a number. The division upon receipt of the application shall request the chief veterinary meat inspector to make an inspection of the premises of the meat processor. If the establishment is found clean and sanitary and meets the requirements of subsection A of this section, the associate director shall authorize the granting of an establishment number to the applicant. Applicants granted the use of an establishment number shall:
1. Have a daily inspection visit by the chief veterinary meat inspector or one of his deputies.
2. Allow all meats used for processing to be subjected to reinspection and condemnation in whole or in part, if necessary.
3. Permit the inspectors to inspect all the operations in the processing of meat and meat food products so as to assure that such operations are being conducted in a clean and wholesome manner and in conformity with the provisions of this chapter.
4. Use only "Arizona inspected and passed" meats or United States department of agriculture inspected and passed meats in the preparation of all meat and meat food products.
D. A slaughtering establishment with state meat inspection service which processes meat or meat food products shall:
1. Allow all meats used for processing to be subjected to reinspection and condemnation in whole or in part, if necessary.
2. Permit the inspectors to inspect all the operations in the processing of meat and meat food products so as to assure that such operations are being conducted in a clean and wholesome manner and in conformity with the provisions of this chapter.
3. Use only "Arizona inspected and passed" meats or United States department of agriculture inspected and passed meats in the preparation of all meat and meat food products.
© 2024 Arizona State Legislature. All Rights Reserved