Title: 3
Article: 3-2166

Content:
Arizona Legislature
The Arizona Revised Statutes have been updated to include the revised sections from the 56th Legislature, 1st Regular Session.  Please note that the next update of this compilation will not take place until after the conclusion of the 56th Legislature, 2nd Regular Session, which convenes in January 2024.
This online version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is primarily maintained for legislative drafting purposes and reflects the version of law that is effective on January 1st of the year following the most recent legislative session.  The official version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is published by Thomson Reuters.
3-2166.Condemnation of product
A. Any poultry product or any dead, dying or disabled or diseased poultry that is being transported in intrastate commerce, or is held for sale in this state after such transportation, and is or has been processed, sold, transported or otherwise distributed or offered or received for distribution in violation of this article, or is capable of use as human food and is adulterated or misbranded, or in any other way is in violation of this article, shall be liable to be proceeded against and seized and condemned at any time on a libel of information in the superior court in any county within the jurisdiction of which the article or poultry is found. If the article or poultry is condemned it shall after entry of the decree be disposed of by destruction or sale as the court may direct and the proceeds if sold less the court costs and fees, and storage and other proper expenses, shall be deposited, pursuant to sections 35-146 and 35-147, but the article or poultry shall not be sold contrary to the provisions of this article, or the federal poultry products inspection act or the federal food, drug and cosmetic act, provided that upon the execution and delivery of a good and sufficient bond conditioned that the article or poultry shall not be sold or otherwise disposed of contrary to this article or the laws of the United States, the court may direct that such article or poultry be delivered to the owner thereof subject to such supervision by authorized representatives of the department as is necessary to insure compliance with the applicable laws. When a decree of condemnation is entered against the article or poultry and it is released under bond or destroyed, court costs and fees and storage and other proper expenses shall be awarded against the person intervening as claimant of the article or poultry.
B. The provisions of this section shall in no way derogate from authority for condemnation or seizure conferred by other provisions of this article or other laws.
© 2024 Arizona State Legislature. All Rights Reserved