Title: 3
Article: 3-2122

Content:
Arizona Legislature
The Arizona Revised Statutes have been updated to include the revised sections from the 56th Legislature, 1st Regular Session.  Please note that the next update of this compilation will not take place until after the conclusion of the 56th Legislature, 2nd Regular Session, which convenes in January 2024.
This online version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is primarily maintained for legislative drafting purposes and reflects the version of law that is effective on January 1st of the year following the most recent legislative session.  The official version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is published by Thomson Reuters.
3-2122.License to slaughter horses for human consumption; application; records required; appointment of inspectors
A. A license shall be obtained from the division before slaughtering a horse for human consumption.
B. Application for a license to conduct a slaughterhouse for the slaughter of horses for human consumption shall be submitted to the division on a form prescribed by the department. The application shall contain the information the department deems necessary including a statement that the applicant will comply with the requirements of law and the rules of the director relating to the slaughter, processing, packing or preparation of meat food products made for human consumption from horsemeat, and shall be accompanied by the filing fee required for an application to conduct a slaughterhouse pursuant to article 1 of this chapter.
C. The holder of a slaughterhouse license issued under the provisions of this article or a person handling horsemeat for resale shall maintain a record of the live and dressed weight, the date and from whom each horse was received.
D. A complete record of the sale of horsemeat shall be maintained for a period of one year, showing the name and address of each customer and the amount and date of each sale. All records required by this section shall be open for inspection by the department, the department of health services or an authorized agent thereof.
E. Inspectors appointed under article 2 of this chapter may also serve as inspectors under this article, as assigned by the department.
© 2024 Arizona State Legislature. All Rights Reserved