Title: 3
Article: 3-2162

Content:
Arizona Legislature
The Arizona Revised Statutes have been updated to include the revised sections from the 56th Legislature, 1st Regular Session.  Please note that the next update of this compilation will not take place until after the conclusion of the 56th Legislature, 2nd Regular Session, which convenes in January 2024.
This online version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is primarily maintained for legislative drafting purposes and reflects the version of law that is effective on January 1st of the year following the most recent legislative session.  The official version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is published by Thomson Reuters.
3-2162.Exemptions and exceptions
A. The following shall be exempted from the provisions of this article:
1. Retail dealers with respect to poultry products sold directly to consumers in individual retail stores, if the only processing operation performed by such retail dealers is the cutting up of poultry products on the premises where such sales to consumers are made.
2. Persons slaughtering, processing or otherwise handling poultry or poultry products which have been or are to be processed as required by recognized religious dietary laws, to the extent that the director determines necessary to avoid conflict with such requirements while still effectuating the purposes of this article.
3. The slaughtering by any person of poultry of his own raising, and the processing by him and transportation of the poultry products exclusively for use by him and members of his household and his nonpaying guests and employees.
4. The custom slaughter by any person of poultry delivered by the owner thereof for such slaughter, and the processing by such slaughterer and transportation of the poultry products exclusively for use, in the household of such owner, by him and members of his household and his nonpaying guests and employees, if the custom slaughterer does not engage in the business of buying or selling any poultry products capable of use as human food.
5. The slaughtering and processing of poultry products by any poultry producer on his own premises with respect to sound and healthy poultry raised on his premises and the distribution by any person of the poultry products derived from such operations, if, in lieu of other labeling requirements, such poultry products are identified with the name and address of such poultry producer, and if they are not otherwise misbranded, and are sound, clean and fit for human food when so distributed.
6. The slaughtering of sound and healthy poultry or the processing of poultry products of such poultry by any poultry producer or other person for distribution by him directly to household consumers, restaurants, hotels and boarding houses for use in their own dining rooms, or in the preparation of meals for sales direct to consumers, if, in lieu of other labeling requirements, such poultry products are identified with the name and address of the processor, and if they are not otherwise misbranded and are sound, clean and fit for human food when distributed by such processor.
B. In addition to the specific exemptions authorized in subsection A, the director shall, when he determines that the protection of consumers from adulterated or misbranded poultry products will not be impaired by such action, provide by rule, consistent with subsection C, for the exemption of the operation and products of small enterprises including poultry producers, not exempted under subsection A, which are engaged in slaughtering or cutting up poultry for distribution as carcasses or parts thereof, solely for distribution within this state, from such provisions of this article as he deems appropriate, while still protecting the public from adulterated or misbranded products under such conditions, including sanitary requirements, as he prescribes.
C. The exemptions provided for in subsection A, paragraphs 4 and 5 shall not apply if the poultry producer or other person engages in the current calendar year in the business of buying or selling any poultry or poultry products other than as specified in such paragraphs. No such exemption or an exemption under subsection B shall apply to any poultry producer or other person who slaughters or processes the products of more than five thousand turkeys or an equivalent number of poultry of all species in the current calendar year with four birds of other species being deemed the equivalent of one turkey.
D. The provisions of this article requiring inspection shall not apply to operations of types traditionally and usually conducted at retail stores and restaurants, when conducted at any retail store or restaurant or similar retail-type establishment for sale in normal retail quantities or service of such articles to consumers at such establishments, if no poultry or poultry products are processed at the establishment for distribution outside this state or otherwise subject to inspection under the federal poultry products inspection act.
E. This article does not apply to poultry producers with respect to poultry of their own raising on their own farms if such producers slaughter not more than two hundred fifty turkeys, or not more than an equivalent number of birds of all species, during the calendar year for which this exemption is being determined with four birds of other species being deemed the equivalent of one turkey or such poultry producers do not engage in buying or selling poultry products other than those produced from poultry raised on their own farms, and such poultry moves only in intrastate commerce.
F. The adulteration and misbranding provisions of this article, other than the requirement of the inspection legend, shall apply to articles which are exempted from inspection under this section, except as otherwise specified under subsection A, B or E.
G. The director may by order suspend or terminate any exemption under subsection A or B with respect to any person whenever he finds that such action will aid in effectuating the purposes of this article.
© 2024 Arizona State Legislature. All Rights Reserved