Title: 3
Article: 3-2156

Content:
Arizona Legislature
The Arizona Revised Statutes have been updated to include the revised sections from the 56th Legislature, 1st Regular Session.  Please note that the next update of this compilation will not take place until after the conclusion of the 56th Legislature, 2nd Regular Session, which convenes in January 2024.
This online version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is primarily maintained for legislative drafting purposes and reflects the version of law that is effective on January 1st of the year following the most recent legislative session.  The official version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is published by Thomson Reuters.
3-2156.Prohibited acts
A. A person shall not:
1. Slaughter any poultry or process any poultry products which are capable of use as human food at any establishment processing any such articles solely for intrastate commerce, except in compliance with the requirements of this chapter.
2. Sell, transport, offer for sale or transportation or receive for transportation in intrastate commerce any poultry products which are capable of use as human food and are adulterated or misbranded at the time of such sale, transportation, offer for sale or transportation or receipt for transportation or any poultry products required to be inspected unless they have been so inspected and passed.
3. Do, with respect to any poultry products which are capable of use as human food, any act while they are being transported in intrastate commerce or held for sale after such transportation which is intended to cause or has the effect of causing such products to be adulterated or misbranded.
4. Sell, transport, offer for sale or transportation or receive for transportation in intrastate commerce or from an official establishment any slaughtered poultry from which the blood, feathers, feet, head or viscera have not been removed in accordance with rules adopted by the director, except as may be authorized by rule.
5. Use to his own advantage, or reveal other than to the authorized representatives of the state government or any other government in their official capacity, or as ordered by a court in any judicial proceedings, any information acquired under the authority of this chapter concerning any matter which is entitled to protection as a trade secret.
B. No brand manufacturer, printer, or other person shall cast, print, lithograph or otherwise make any device containing any official mark or simulation thereof, or any label bearing any such mark or simulation, or any form of official certificate or simulation thereof, except as authorized by the division.
C. A person shall not:
1. Forge any official device, mark or certificate.
2. Without authorization from the division use any official device, mark or certificate, or simulation thereof, or alter, detach, deface or destroy any official device, mark or certificate.
3. Contrary to the rules prescribed by the director, fail to use, or detach, deface or destroy, any official device, mark or certificate.
4. Knowingly possess, without promptly notifying the department or its representative, any official device or any counterfeit, simulated, forged or improperly altered official certificate or any device or label or any carcass of any poultry, or part or product thereof, bearing any counterfeit, simulated, forged or improperly altered official mark.
5. Knowingly make any false statement in any shipper's certificate or other nonofficial or official certificate provided for in the rules prescribed by the director.
6. Knowingly represent that any article has been inspected and passed or exempted, when in fact it has not been so inspected and passed or exempted.
© 2024 Arizona State Legislature. All Rights Reserved