Title: 3
Article: 3-214.01

Content:
Arizona Legislature
The Arizona Revised Statutes have been updated to include the revised sections from the 56th Legislature, 1st Regular Session.  Please note that the next update of this compilation will not take place until after the conclusion of the 56th Legislature, 2nd Regular Session, which convenes in January 2024.
This online version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is primarily maintained for legislative drafting purposes and reflects the version of law that is effective on January 1st of the year following the most recent legislative session.  The official version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is published by Thomson Reuters.
3-214.01.Dangerous plants, pests and diseases trust fund
A. A dangerous plants, pests and diseases trust fund is established for the exclusive purpose of implementing, continuing and supporting the agricultural program established by this article. All monies collected under this article except civil penalties assessed pursuant to section  3-205.02 or 3-215.01 shall be deposited in the dangerous plants, pests and diseases trust fund.
B. The director shall administer the trust fund as trustee. The state treasurer shall accept, separately account for and hold in trust any monies deposited in the state treasury, which are considered to be trust monies as defined in section 35-310 and which shall not be commingled with any other monies in the state treasury except for investment purposes.  On notice from the director, the state treasurer shall invest and divest any trust fund monies deposited in the state treasury as provided by sections 35-313 and 35-314.03, and monies earned from investment shall be credited to the trust fund.
C. The beneficiary of the trust is the agricultural program established by this article.  All monies in the dangerous plants, pests and diseases trust fund are to be used by the department exclusively to carry out this article, including salaries, fees and office, administrative, bonding and travel expenses incurred.
D. The unexpended and unencumbered balance of monies, if any, remaining in the dangerous plants, pests and diseases trust fund at the end of each fiscal year shall not revert to the state general fund.

© 2024 Arizona State Legislature. All Rights Reserved