Title: 3
Article: 3-2159

Content:
Arizona Legislature
The Arizona Revised Statutes have been updated to include the revised sections from the 56th Legislature, 1st Regular Session.  Please note that the next update of this compilation will not take place until after the conclusion of the 56th Legislature, 2nd Regular Session, which convenes in January 2024.
This online version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is primarily maintained for legislative drafting purposes and reflects the version of law that is effective on January 1st of the year following the most recent legislative session.  The official version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is published by Thomson Reuters.
3-2159.Violations; classification
A. Any person who violates section 3-2156, 3-2157, 3-2158 or 3-2161 is guilty of a class 1 misdemeanor, but if such violation involves intent to defraud, or any distribution or attempted distribution of an article that is adulterated, except as defined in section 3-2151, paragraph 1, subdivision (i), such person is guilty of a class 6 felony. When construing or enforcing the provisions of this article omission or failure of any person acting for or employed by any individual, partnership, corporation or association within the scope of his employment or office shall in every case be deemed the act, omission or failure of such individual, partnership, corporation or association, as well as of such person.
B. No carrier shall be subject to the penalties of this article, other than the penalties for violation of section 3-2158, by reason of his receipt, carriage, holding or delivery, in the usual course of business as a carrier of poultry or poultry products owned by another person, unless the carrier has knowledge or is in possession of facts which would cause a reasonable person to believe that such poultry or poultry products were not inspected or marked or were otherwise not eligible for transportation or unless the carrier refuses to furnish on request of a representative of the department the name and address of the person from whom he received such poultry or poultry products, and copies of all documents, if any, pertaining to the delivery of the poultry or poultry products to such carrier.
C. A person who violates a provision of this article for which a specific criminal classification is not prescribed is guilty of a class 2 misdemeanor.
© 2024 Arizona State Legislature. All Rights Reserved