Title: 3
Article: 3-2158

Content:
Arizona Legislature
The Arizona Revised Statutes have been updated to include the revised sections from the 56th Legislature, 1st Regular Session.  Please note that the next update of this compilation will not take place until after the conclusion of the 56th Legislature, 2nd Regular Session, which convenes in January 2024.
This online version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is primarily maintained for legislative drafting purposes and reflects the version of law that is effective on January 1st of the year following the most recent legislative session.  The official version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is published by Thomson Reuters.
3-2158.Articles not intended for human food; requirements for and regulation of intrastate commerce in dead, dying, disabled or diseased poultry; registration
A. Inspection shall not be provided at any establishment for the slaughter of poultry or the processing of any carcasses or parts or products of poultry which are not intended for use as human food, but such articles shall, prior to their offer for sale or transportation in intrastate commerce, unless naturally inedible by humans, be denatured or otherwise identified as prescribed by rules of the director to deter their use for human food. No person shall buy, sell, transport or offer for sale or transportation or receive for transportation in intrastate commerce any poultry carcasses or parts or products thereof which are not intended for use as human food unless they are denatured or otherwise identified as required by the rules of the director or are naturally inedible by humans.
B. The following classes of persons shall, for such period of time as the director may by rules prescribe, but not to exceed two years unless otherwise directed by the director for good cause shown, keep such records as are properly necessary for the effective enforcement of this article in order to insure against adulterated or misbranded poultry products for the consumer and all persons subject to such requirements shall at all reasonable times, upon notice by a duly authorized representative of the department, afford such representative access to their places of business and opportunity to examine the facilities, and inventory thereof, and to take reasonable samples of their inventory upon payment of the fair market value therefor:
1. Class 1. Any person that engages in the business of slaughtering any poultry or processing, freezing, packaging or labeling any carcasses or parts or products of carcasses of any poultry for intrastate commerce for use as human food or animal food.
2. Class 2. Any person that engages in the business of buying or selling as poultry products brokers, wholesalers or otherwise or transporting in intrastate commerce or storing in or for intrastate commerce any carcasses, or parts or products of carcasses, of any poultry.
3. Class 3. Any person that engages in business in or for intrastate commerce as a renderer, or engages in the business of buying, selling or transporting in intrastate commerce any dead, dying, disabled or diseased poultry or parts of the carcasses of any poultry that died otherwise than by slaughter.
C. No person shall engage in business in or for intrastate commerce as a poultry products broker, renderer or animal food manufacturer, or engage in business in intrastate commerce as a wholesaler of any carcasses, or parts or products of the carcasses, of any poultry, whether intended for human food or other purposes, or engage in business as a public warehouseman storing any such articles in or for intrastate commerce, or engage in the business of buying, selling or transporting in intrastate commerce any dead, dying, disabled or diseased poultry, or parts of the carcasses of any poultry that died otherwise than by slaughter, unless, when required by rules of the director, he has registered with the division his name and the address of each place of business at which and all trade names under which he conducts such business.
D. No person engaged in the business of buying, selling or transporting in intrastate commerce dead, dying, disabled or diseased poultry, or any parts of the carcasses of any poultry that died otherwise than by slaughter, shall buy, sell, transport, offer for sale or transportation, or receive for transportation in intrastate commerce any dead, dying, disabled or diseased poultry or parts of the carcasses of any poultry that died otherwise than by slaughter, unless such transaction or transportation is made in accordance with such rules as the director may prescribe to assure that such poultry, or the unwholesome parts or products thereof, will be prevented from being used for human food.
© 2024 Arizona State Legislature. All Rights Reserved