Title: 3
Article: 3-2153

Content:
Arizona Legislature
The Arizona Revised Statutes have been updated to include the revised sections from the 56th Legislature, 1st Regular Session.  Please note that the next update of this compilation will not take place until after the conclusion of the 56th Legislature, 2nd Regular Session, which convenes in January 2024.
This online version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is primarily maintained for legislative drafting purposes and reflects the version of law that is effective on January 1st of the year following the most recent legislative session.  The official version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is published by Thomson Reuters.
3-2153.Antemortem and postmortem inspection; reinspection and quarantine
A. For the purpose of preventing the entry into or flow or movement in intrastate commerce of any poultry product which is capable of use as human food and is adulterated, the division shall, where and to the extent considered by it necessary, cause to be made by inspectors antemortem inspection of poultry in each official establishment engaged in processing poultry or poultry products solely for intrastate commerce.
B. The division, whenever processing operations are being conducted, shall cause to be made by inspectors postmortem inspection of the carcass of each bird processed, and at any time such quarantine, segregation and reinspection as it deems necessary of poultry and poultry products capable of use as human food in each official establishment engaged in processing such poultry or poultry products solely for intrastate commerce.
C. All poultry carcasses and parts thereof and other poultry products found to be adulterated shall be condemned and shall, if no appeal is taken from such determination of condemnation, be destroyed for human food purposes under the supervision of an inspector, provided that carcasses, parts, and products, which may by reprocessing be made not adulterated, need not be so condemned and destroyed if so reprocessed under the supervision of an inspector and thereafter found to be not adulterated. If an appeal is taken from such determination, the carcasses, parts or products shall be appropriately marked and segregated pending completion of an appeal inspection, which appeal shall be at the cost of the appellant if the associate director determines that the appeal is frivolous. If the determination of condemnation is sustained the carcasses, parts and products shall be destroyed for food purposes under the supervision of an inspector.
© 2024 Arizona State Legislature. All Rights Reserved