Title: 3
Article: 3-2152

Content:
Arizona Legislature
The Arizona Revised Statutes have been updated to include the revised sections from the 56th Legislature, 1st Regular Session.  Please note that the next update of this compilation will not take place until after the conclusion of the 56th Legislature, 2nd Regular Session, which convenes in January 2024.
This online version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is primarily maintained for legislative drafting purposes and reflects the version of law that is effective on January 1st of the year following the most recent legislative session.  The official version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is published by Thomson Reuters.
3-2152.State and federal cooperation
A. The department is designated as the state agency which shall be responsible for cooperating with the secretary of agriculture of the United States under the provisions of section 5 of the federal poultry products inspection act.
B. In such cooperative efforts, the department is authorized to accept from the secretary of agriculture advisory assistance in planning and otherwise developing the state program, technical and laboratory assistance and training, including necessary curricular and instructional materials and equipment, and financial and other aid for administration of such a program. The department may spend public funds of this state appropriated for administration of this chapter to pay such share of the estimated total cost of the cooperative program as may be agreed upon by the director and the secretary of agriculture.
C. The director may recommend to the secretary of agriculture such officials or employees of this state as the director shall designate for appointment to the advisory committees provided for in section 5 of the federal poultry products inspection act. The director shall serve as the representative of the governor for consultation with the secretary of agriculture under this subsection unless the governor selects another representative.
© 2024 Arizona State Legislature. All Rights Reserved