Title: 3
Article: 3-235

Content:
Arizona Legislature
The Arizona Revised Statutes have been updated to include the revised sections from the 56th Legislature, 1st Regular Session.  Please note that the next update of this compilation will not take place until after the conclusion of the 56th Legislature, 2nd Regular Session, which convenes in January 2024.
This online version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is primarily maintained for legislative drafting purposes and reflects the version of law that is effective on January 1st of the year following the most recent legislative session.  The official version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is published by Thomson Reuters.
3-235.Seed dealer and labeler licenses; fee; exception
A. An Arizona seed dealer or an out-of-state seed dealer who sells, distributes, processes or mixes for the use of others any agricultural, vegetable or ornamental plant seed, except vegetable and ornamental plant seed in packages of less than one pound, shall obtain a license from the division, authorizing the dealer to sell, distribute, process or mix such seed. A dealer is not entitled to have a license unless the dealer has an established plant, warehouse or place of business. A separate seed dealer license is required for each place of business in this state from which seed regulated by this article is sold.
B. A seed labeler who labels any agricultural, vegetable or ornamental plant seed for sale, distribution or processing shall obtain a seed labeler license from the division for each place of business at which seed regulated by this article is labeled.
C. An application for a license shall be accompanied by the fee prescribed by section 3-233. A license shall be renewed annually not later than July 1, and the application for renewal shall be accompanied by the fee prescribed by section 3-233.
D. This section does not apply to a farmer growing seed crops for sale to a seed dealer or labeler. The portion of crops received by an individual who harvests the producer's crop and receives part of the crop as payment for services rendered in the harvesting shall be exempt from this section.

© 2024 Arizona State Legislature. All Rights Reserved