Title: 3
Article: 3-242

Content:
Arizona Legislature
The Arizona Revised Statutes have been updated to include the revised sections from the 56th Legislature, 1st Regular Session.  Please note that the next update of this compilation will not take place until after the conclusion of the 56th Legislature, 2nd Regular Session, which convenes in January 2024.
This online version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is primarily maintained for legislative drafting purposes and reflects the version of law that is effective on January 1st of the year following the most recent legislative session.  The official version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is published by Thomson Reuters.
3-242.Violations; civil penalties
A. The director may assess a civil penalty of at least fifty dollars but not more than three hundred dollars for each violation, with each affected customer constituting a separate violation, against a seed dealer or labeler who, after a hearing, is found by a preponderance of the evidence:
1. To have not completed the test to determine the percentage of germination required by section 3-237 immediately before the sale, offering for sale or transportation:
(a) Within a nine month period, exclusive of the calendar month in which the test was completed, for any agricultural, ornamental or vegetable seed intended for wholesale or commercial producer purchase.
(b) Within a fifteen month period, exclusive of the calendar month in which the test was completed, for any agricultural, ornamental or vegetable seed intended for retail purchase.
2. To have not obtained any license that is required by this article.
B. The director may assess a civil penalty of not more than two thousand five hundred dollars for each violation, with each affected customer constituting a separate violation, against a seed dealer or labeler who, after a hearing, is found by a preponderance of the evidence:
1. To have labeled or sold seed represented to be certified seed, registered seed or foundation seed unless it has been produced and labeled according to the rules and regulations of an officially recognized seed certification or registration agency.
2. To have labeled or sold seed that has been treated with any approved substance designed to control or repel plant disease organisms or insect pests attacking the seeds, unless each container bears a label giving information in the form the director prescribes by rule, showing the commonly accepted name and the kind or nature of the substance and, if the substance may be harmful to humans or other vertebrate animals, a warning or cautionary statement that is adequate to protect the public.
3. To have hindered or obstructed an authorized agent of the department from performing official duties under this article.
4. To have failed to comply with a cease and desist order.
5. To have labeled or sold seed that has a false or misleading label.
6. To have labeled or sold seed that has been advertised in a false or misleading manner.

© 2024 Arizona State Legislature. All Rights Reserved