Title: 3
Article: 3-241

Content:
Arizona Legislature
The Arizona Revised Statutes have been updated to include the revised sections from the 56th Legislature, 1st Regular Session.  Please note that the next update of this compilation will not take place until after the conclusion of the 56th Legislature, 2nd Regular Session, which convenes in January 2024.
This online version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is primarily maintained for legislative drafting purposes and reflects the version of law that is effective on January 1st of the year following the most recent legislative session.  The official version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is published by Thomson Reuters.
3-241.Exemptions; exceptions
A. The provisions of sections 3-237 and 3-242 do not apply:
1. To seed or grain not intended for sowing purposes.
2. To seed in storage in, or being transported or consigned to a cleaning or processing establishment for cleaning or processing, if the invoice or labeling accompanying any shipment of such seed bears the statement "seed for processing," and if any labeling or other representation which may be made with respect to the uncleaned or unprocessed seed shall be subject to this article.
3. To any carrier in respect to any seed transported or delivered for transportation in the ordinary course of its business as a carrier, if the carrier is not engaged in producing, processing, or marketing agricultural, vegetable or ornamental plant seed subject to provisions of this article.
B. No person shall be subject to the penalties of this article for having sold or offered or exposed for sale in the state any agricultural, vegetable or ornamental plant seeds, which were incorrectly labeled or represented as to kind, variety, type or origin, which seeds cannot be identified by examination thereof, unless he has failed to obtain an invoice or grower's declaration, if required, and to take such other precautions as are necessary to insure the identity to be that stated.
© 2024 Arizona State Legislature. All Rights Reserved