Title: 3
Article: 3-2401

Content:
Arizona Legislature
The Arizona Revised Statutes have been updated to include the revised sections from the 56th Legislature, 1st Regular Session.  Please note that the next update of this compilation will not take place until after the conclusion of the 56th Legislature, 2nd Regular Session, which convenes in January 2024.
This online version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is primarily maintained for legislative drafting purposes and reflects the version of law that is effective on January 1st of the year following the most recent legislative session.  The official version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is published by Thomson Reuters.
3-2401.Control of destructive animals and noxious rodents; agreements and cooperation with federal agencies; exception
A. The director shall cooperate with the animal and plant health inspection service of the United States department of agriculture in the control and destruction or relocation of predatory wildlife, reintroduced predatory wildlife, noxious rodents and related animals that are injurious to livestock, poultry, game, agriculture, other industries and the public health in accordance with organized and systematic plans of the animal and plant health inspection service. For such purposes, the director shall enter into written agreements with the animal and plant health inspection service regarding the methods and procedure to be followed, the extent of supervision to be exercised by the state and federal agencies, respectively, and the use and expenditure of state funds. The director, in cooperation with the animal and plant health inspection service, may also enter into cooperative agreements with other governmental agencies and counties of the state to promote the control and destruction of predatory wildlife, reintroduced predatory wildlife, noxious rodents and related animals.
B. The authority to destroy predatory wildlife, reintroduced predatory wildlife, noxious rodents and related animals does not include big game animals as defined in section 17-101, except:
1. Bear and mountain lion taken pursuant to section 17-302.
2. To protect public health and safety.

© 2024 Arizona State Legislature. All Rights Reserved