Title: 3
Article: 3-2601

Content:
Arizona Legislature
The Arizona Revised Statutes have been updated to include the revised sections from the 56th Legislature, 1st Regular Session.  Please note that the next update of this compilation will not take place until after the conclusion of the 56th Legislature, 2nd Regular Session, which convenes in January 2024.
This online version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is primarily maintained for legislative drafting purposes and reflects the version of law that is effective on January 1st of the year following the most recent legislative session.  The official version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is published by Thomson Reuters.
3-2601.Definitions
In this article, unless the context otherwise requires:
1. "ALIRT agreement" means the Arizona livestock incident response team agreement established between the department and a university under the jurisdiction of the Arizona board of regents.
2. "Brand" means the term, design or trademark and other specific designation under which an individual commercial feed is distributed in this state.
3. "Commercial feed" means all materials, except whole seeds unmixed or physically altered entire unmixed seeds, that are distributed for use as feed or for mixing in feed. Commercial feed includes raw agricultural commodities distributed for use as feed or for mixing in feed when the commodities are adulterated within the meaning of section 3-2611.
4. "Customer-formula feed" means a mixture of commercial feed or feed materials, or both, each batch of which is mixed according to the specific instructions of the final purchaser.
5. "Distribute" means to offer for sale, sell, barter or otherwise supply commercial feeds or customer-formula feeds, but does not include or apply to any feeds supplied for consumption on the premises of the supplier.
6. "Division" means the environmental services division of the Arizona department of agriculture.
7. "Feed ingredient" means each of the constituent materials making up a commercial feed.
8. "Label" means a display of written, printed or graphic matter on or affixed to the container in which a commercial feed is distributed, or on the invoice or delivery slip with which a commercial feed or customer-formula feed is distributed.
9. "Official sample" means any sample of feed taken by the director or the director's agent and designated as official.
10. "Per cent" or "percentage" means percentage by weight.
11. "Person" includes an individual, partnership, corporation, firm, association or agent.
12. "Sell" or "sale" includes exchange.
13. "Ton" means a net weight of two thousand pounds avoirdupois.

© 2024 Arizona State Legislature. All Rights Reserved