Title: 3
Article: 3-266

Content:
Arizona Legislature
The Arizona Revised Statutes have been updated to include the revised sections from the 56th Legislature, 1st Regular Session.  Please note that the next update of this compilation will not take place until after the conclusion of the 56th Legislature, 2nd Regular Session, which convenes in January 2024.
This online version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is primarily maintained for legislative drafting purposes and reflects the version of law that is effective on January 1st of the year following the most recent legislative session.  The official version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is published by Thomson Reuters.
3-266.Annual reports and publications; membership in professional organizations
A. The director may provide for publishing at such times and in such form as the director deems proper information concerning the sale of fertilizer materials together with such data on their production and use as the director considers advisable, and a report of the monies received and expended, but the information concerning production and use of fertilizer materials shall not disclose the operations of any one person. Reports of chemists' findings based on official samples of each brand of fertilizer material sampled and analyzed during the year as compared to the guaranteed chemical analysis for each such fertilizer material shall be published annually as promptly as possible after January 1 each year.
B. The director may authorize employees of the division to join and subscribe to any state, district, regional or national organizations or publications relating to sale and distribution or control of sale and distribution of fertilizer materials, and attend state, district, regional and national meetings relating to sale and distribution or control of sale and distribution of fertilizer materials.
C. Expenses authorized by this section shall be paid from and limited by the fertilizer materials trust fund.

© 2024 Arizona State Legislature. All Rights Reserved