Title: 3
Article: 3-2610

Content:
Arizona Legislature
The Arizona Revised Statutes have been updated to include the revised sections from the 56th Legislature, 1st Regular Session.  Please note that the next update of this compilation will not take place until after the conclusion of the 56th Legislature, 2nd Regular Session, which convenes in January 2024.
This online version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is primarily maintained for legislative drafting purposes and reflects the version of law that is effective on January 1st of the year following the most recent legislative session.  The official version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is published by Thomson Reuters.
3-2610.Labeling
A. A commercial feed, except a customer-formula feed, shall be accompanied by a label bearing the following information:
1. The net weight.
2. The product name and the brand name, if any, under which the commercial feed is distributed.
3. The guaranteed analysis, stated in such terms as the director by rule determines, is required to advise the user of the composition of the feed or to support claims made in the labeling. In all cases the substances or elements must be determinable by laboratory methods such as the methods published by the association of official analytical chemists.
4. The common or usual name of each ingredient used in the manufacture of the commercial feed. The director by rule may permit the use of a collective term for a group of ingredients which perform a similar function or may exempt such commercial feeds, or any group of such feeds from this requirement of an ingredient statement if the director finds that such statement is not required in the interest of consumers.
5. The name and principal mailing address of the manufacturer or the person responsible for distributing the commercial feed.
6. Adequate directions for use or precautionary statements for all commercial feeds containing drugs and for such other feeds as the director may require by rule as necessary for their safe and effective use.
B. A customer-formula feed shall be accompanied by a label, delivery slip or other shipping document bearing the following information:
1. Name and address of the manufacturer.
2. Name and address of the purchaser.
3. Date of delivery.
4. The product name and brand name, if any, and the net weight of shipment.
5. Adequate directions for use or precautionary statements for all customer-formula feeds containing drugs and for such other feeds as the director may require by rule as necessary for their safe and effective use.
© 2024 Arizona State Legislature. All Rights Reserved