Title: 3
Article: 3-2603

Content:
Arizona Legislature
The Arizona Revised Statutes have been updated to include the revised sections from the 56th Legislature, 1st Regular Session.  Please note that the next update of this compilation will not take place until after the conclusion of the 56th Legislature, 2nd Regular Session, which convenes in January 2024.
This online version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is primarily maintained for legislative drafting purposes and reflects the version of law that is effective on January 1st of the year following the most recent legislative session.  The official version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is published by Thomson Reuters.
3-2603.Enforcement and administrative powers
A. The associate director may refuse to license or may cancel the license of any distributor in violation of this article.  The director shall review the associate director's action on request of any person adversely affected by the action.
B. The director may, after a hearing:
1. Adopt rules:
(a) Requiring the guarantee of substances and elements when claimed present in a commercial feed, and declare the form in which the guarantee shall appear on the label.
(b) Setting forth acceptable descriptive terms by which ingredients shall be listed on the labeling when used as ingredients of a commercial feed or customer-formula feed.
(c) Requiring a statement of warning and directions for use of commercial feeds and customer-formula feeds containing drugs or chemicals.
(d) Establishing limits of viable weed seeds contained in commercial feed.
(e) Both administrative and technical, which the director deems necessary for the efficient administration of this article.
2. Cooperate with, and enter into agreements with, universities under the jurisdiction of the Arizona board of regents, other agencies of this state, other states and agencies of the federal government in order to carry out the purpose and provisions of this article, including the implementation and use of commercial feed trust fund monies to assist the efforts of an ALIRT agreement.
3. Exempt from the definition of commercial feed or from specific provisions of this article commodities such as hay, straw, stover, silage, cobs, husks, hulls and individual chemical compounds or substances when those commodities, compounds or substances are not intermixed or mixed with other materials and are not adulterated within the meaning of section 3-2611.
4. Define weights in the metric system.

© 2024 Arizona State Legislature. All Rights Reserved