Title: 3
Article: 3-267

Content:
Arizona Legislature
The Arizona Revised Statutes have been updated to include the revised sections from the 56th Legislature, 1st Regular Session.  Please note that the next update of this compilation will not take place until after the conclusion of the 56th Legislature, 2nd Regular Session, which convenes in January 2024.
This online version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is primarily maintained for legislative drafting purposes and reflects the version of law that is effective on January 1st of the year following the most recent legislative session.  The official version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is published by Thomson Reuters.
3-267.Inspections; official samples; analysis; report
A. The director, who may act through an authorized agent, shall sample, inspect and make analyses of fertilizer materials distributed within the state at such time and place and to such an extent as the director deems necessary to determine whether or not such fertilizer materials are in compliance with the provisions of this article. The director, individually or through an agent, may enter upon any public or private premises during regular business hours in order to have access to such fertilizer materials subject to the provisions of this article and the rules pertaining to this article.
B. The director, in determining for administrative purposes whether or not fertilizer materials are deficient in any of their component parts, shall be guided solely by the official sample as defined in section 3-262, subsection B, and obtained and analyzed as provided in subsection A of this section.
C. The results of official analyses of any fertilizer material that has been found to be subject to penalty or other legal action shall be forwarded by the director to the licensee or other responsible person and to the purchaser within thirty days after the sample is taken.  Upon request within thirty days of the issuance of the analytical report, the director shall furnish to the licensee or other responsible person a portion of any sample found subject to penalty or other legal action.

© 2024 Arizona State Legislature. All Rights Reserved