Title: 3
Article: 3-2609

Content:
Arizona Legislature
The Arizona Revised Statutes have been updated to include the revised sections from the 56th Legislature, 1st Regular Session.  Please note that the next update of this compilation will not take place until after the conclusion of the 56th Legislature, 2nd Regular Session, which convenes in January 2024.
This online version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is primarily maintained for legislative drafting purposes and reflects the version of law that is effective on January 1st of the year following the most recent legislative session.  The official version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is published by Thomson Reuters.
3-2609.Licensing
A. No person may manufacture or distribute commercial feed in this state without a commercial feed license from the division, except that no license is required of persons distributing only:
1. Commercial feeds to licensed manufacturers for further manufacturing.
2. Packaged commercial feed in the original packages or containers of a licensee as packaged and labeled by the licensee.
3. Bulk commercial feed in the form received from a licensee and labeled as required with label information furnished by the licensee, except for net weight statement.
B. Applications for a license shall be made on forms prescribed by the department listing each business location used in the manufacture or distribution of commercial feed in this state and such other information the department requires. Applications shall be accompanied by a fee of ten dollars per year for each separate place of business used in the manufacture of commercial feed in this state. Applications of manufacturers or distributors having no established place of business in this state, but otherwise subject to a license under this section, shall be accompanied by a fee of ten dollars per year. All licenses issued through 1998 expire on the last day of February of the following year. Beginning in 1999, the director may provide by rule for licenses having a term of one or more years and may prescribe the date on which licenses expire. Licenses are not transferable and no credit or refund may be granted for licenses held for less than a full license term. No new business locations may be put into operation during the term of the license without the payment of an additional fee of ten dollars for each new location.
© 2024 Arizona State Legislature. All Rights Reserved