Title: 3
Article: 3-2616

Content:
Arizona Legislature
The Arizona Revised Statutes have been updated to include the revised sections from the 56th Legislature, 1st Regular Session.  Please note that the next update of this compilation will not take place until after the conclusion of the 56th Legislature, 2nd Regular Session, which convenes in January 2024.
This online version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is primarily maintained for legislative drafting purposes and reflects the version of law that is effective on January 1st of the year following the most recent legislative session.  The official version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is published by Thomson Reuters.
3-2616.Violations; notice; criminal classification; injunctive relief; exceptions
A. If it appears from the examination of any whole cottonseed, commercial feed or customer-formula feed that any of the provisions of this article or the rules adopted under this article have been violated, the director shall pursue one or more of the following courses of enforcement:
1. The director may cause notice of the violation to be given to the licensee or person responsible for placing the feed on sale. Any person so notified shall be given opportunity to be heard under such rules as are prescribed by the director. If the director finds after such hearing, either in the presence or absence of the person so notified, that any of the provisions of this article or rules adopted under this article have been violated, the director may certify the facts to the county attorney.
2. The director may request the county attorney to initiate criminal prosecution. Each county attorney to whom any such violation is reported shall cause appropriate proceedings to be instituted and prosecuted in a court of competent jurisdiction without delay.
3. Any person convicted of violating any of the provisions of this article or the rules adopted under this article, or who impedes, obstructs, hinders or otherwise prevents or attempts to prevent the director or the director's duly authorized agent in the performance of the director's duty under the provisions of this article, is guilty of a class 2 misdemeanor.
4. In all prosecutions under this article involving the composition of a lot of commercial feed or customer-formula feed, a certified copy of the official analysis signed by the director or the director's agent shall be accepted as prima facie evidence of the composition of the feed.
5. Nothing in this article shall be construed as requiring the director or the director's representative to report for prosecution or for the institution of seizure proceedings minor violations of this article if the director believes that the public interest will be best served by a suitable notice of warning in writing.
6. The director may apply for and the court may grant a temporary or permanent injunction restraining any person from violating or continuing to violate any of the provisions of this article or any rule adopted under this article notwithstanding the existence of other remedies at law.
B. Any monies collected pursuant to this section shall be deposited, pursuant to sections 35-146 and 35-147, in the state general fund.
C. The provisions of this article shall not apply to:
1. Bulk commercial or customer formula feeds which are not adulterated pursuant to section 3-2611 and supplied for consumption on the premises owned or controlled by a commercial feedlot or commercial livestock operation.
2. Hay, straw, shover, silage, cobs, husks, hulls, chemical compounds or substances and whole seeds unmixed or physically altered entire unmixed seeds which are not adulterated pursuant to section 3-2611.
© 2024 Arizona State Legislature. All Rights Reserved