Title: 3
Article: 3-2605

Content:
Arizona Legislature
The Arizona Revised Statutes have been updated to include the revised sections from the 56th Legislature, 1st Regular Session.  Please note that the next update of this compilation will not take place until after the conclusion of the 56th Legislature, 2nd Regular Session, which convenes in January 2024.
This online version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is primarily maintained for legislative drafting purposes and reflects the version of law that is effective on January 1st of the year following the most recent legislative session.  The official version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is published by Thomson Reuters.
3-2605.Inspection; official samples; analysis; report
A. The director, who may act through an authorized agent, shall sample, inspect, analyze and test commercial feeds and customer-formula feeds distributed within the state at such time and place and to such an extent as the director deems necessary to determine whether or not such feeds are in compliance with the provisions of this article. The director, individually or through an agent, may enter upon any public or private premises during regular business hours in order to have access to feeds, facilities, vehicles and records subject to the provisions of this article and the rules adopted by the director. If the owner of any factory, warehouse or establishment, or an agent, refuses to admit the director or an agent to inspect in accordance with this subsection, the director may obtain from any state court a warrant directing such owner or an agent to submit the premises described in such warrant to inspection.
B. The methods of sampling and analyzing shall be those adopted by the director.
C. The director, in determining for administrative purposes whether or not a commercial feed or customer-formula feed is deficient in any component, shall be guided solely by the official sample as defined in section 3-2601 and obtained and analyzed as provided in subsection B of this section.
D. When the inspection and analysis of an official sample indicate a commercial feed or customer-formula feed has been adulterated or misbranded, the results of the analysis shall be forwarded immediately by the department to the distributor and the purchaser. Upon receipt of a request within thirty days after transmitting the results of the analysis, the department shall furnish to the registrant a portion of the sample concerned.
© 2024 Arizona State Legislature. All Rights Reserved