Title: 3
Article: 3-264

Content:
Arizona Legislature
The Arizona Revised Statutes have been updated to include the revised sections from the 56th Legislature, 1st Regular Session.  Please note that the next update of this compilation will not take place until after the conclusion of the 56th Legislature, 2nd Regular Session, which convenes in January 2024.
This online version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is primarily maintained for legislative drafting purposes and reflects the version of law that is effective on January 1st of the year following the most recent legislative session.  The official version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is published by Thomson Reuters.
3-264.Enforcement and administrative powers
A. The associate director may refuse to license or may cancel the license of any distributor who violates any provision of this article. The director shall review the associate director's action on request of any person adversely affected by the action.
B. The director may, after an opportunity for a hearing:
1. Determine and publish at least annually the values per unit of weight of nitrogen, phosphorus and potassium in commercial fertilizers in the state for the purpose of assessing penalties on commercial fertilizers under the provisions of section 3-276.
2. Adopt rules that the director deems necessary for the efficient administration and enforcement of this article, including the collection and examination of samples of fertilizer materials, and rules pertaining to composition and use of fertilizer materials, including, without limiting the foregoing general terms, the establishment of tolerances, deficiencies and penalties where not specifically provided for in this article.
3. Prohibit the sale or use in fertilizer materials of any substance proven to be detrimental to agriculture.
4. Provide for incorporating into commercial fertilizers other substances as pesticides and provide for proper labeling of the mixture.
5. Prescribe the information which shall appear on the tag, other than as specifically set forth in this article.
© 2024 Arizona State Legislature. All Rights Reserved