Title: 3
Article: 3-2901

Content:
Arizona Legislature
The Arizona Revised Statutes have been updated to include the revised sections from the 56th Legislature, 1st Regular Session.  Please note that the next update of this compilation will not take place until after the conclusion of the 56th Legislature, 2nd Regular Session, which convenes in January 2024.
This online version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is primarily maintained for legislative drafting purposes and reflects the version of law that is effective on January 1st of the year following the most recent legislative session.  The official version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is published by Thomson Reuters.
3-2901.Definitions
In this chapter, unless the context otherwise requires:
1. "Aquaculture" or "aquaculture facility" means the controlled propagation, growth and harvest of aquatic animals or plants, including fish, amphibians, shellfish, mollusks, crustaceans, algae and vascular plants.
2. "Aquatic animal or plant" means a cultured aquatic wildlife or plant propagated or maintained in an aquaculture facility for distribution or sale.
3. "Aquatic products" means aquatic animals and plants, or their by-products, that are produced, grown, managed, harvested or marketed.
4. "Aquatic wildlife" means amphibians, fish, mollusks, crustaceans and soft shelled turtles found in a state of nature.
5. "Associate director" means the associate director of the division.
6. "Container" means any restrictive enclosure used to contain aquatic products for handling, packing or shipping.
7. "Division" means the animal services division of the Arizona department of agriculture.
8. "Fee fishing" means removing aquatic animals by any harvesting method from a privately controlled body of water as authorized by a direct or indirect payment of a fee.
9. "Lot" means one or more consolidated containers identified as a single item or unit.
10. "Owner" means the person in possession of and legally entitled to dispose of aquatic products.
11. "Person" means an individual, partnership, corporation, group, company, society or association.
12. "Processor" means a person who receives and cleans, reshapes or containerizes live or dead aquatic animals or plants for distribution or resale.
13. "Propagate" means to breed or reproduce aquatic animals or plants or cause aquatic animals or plants to breed or reproduce.
14. "Supervisor" means the supervisor of aquaculture or the supervisor's authorized representative.
15. "Transporter" means a person that transports live aquatic animals or plants to persons who are licensed to resell, process or stock aquatic animals or plants.
© 2024 Arizona State Legislature. All Rights Reserved