Title: 3
Article: 3-316

Content:
Arizona Legislature
The Arizona Revised Statutes have been updated to include the revised sections from the 56th Legislature, 1st Regular Session.  Please note that the next update of this compilation will not take place until after the conclusion of the 56th Legislature, 2nd Regular Session, which convenes in January 2024.
This online version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is primarily maintained for legislative drafting purposes and reflects the version of law that is effective on January 1st of the year following the most recent legislative session.  The official version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is published by Thomson Reuters.
3-316.Recordkeeping, inspection, transportation and distribution requirements
A. A grower, harvester, transporter or processor of industrial hemp that is licensed pursuant to this article shall keep and maintain records as required by rule or order.  The director or the director's designee may inspect or audit the records during normal business hours to ensure compliance with this article or any department rule or order.
B. The director or the director's designee may physically inspect an industrial hemp site to ensure compliance with this article or any department rule or order. During any physical inspection of an industrial hemp site, the director or the director's designee may take a representative sample for analysis by the state agricultural laboratory or a laboratory that is certified by the state agricultural laboratory. If a crop contains an average carboxylated delta-9 tetrahydrocannabinol concentration that exceeds three-tenths percent on a dry-weight basis or violates any other pesticide law, the department may take corrective action pursuant to section 3-317.
C. Notwithstanding section 13-3405, the director or the director's designee may possess and transport samples of cannabis sativa L. collected for testing to determine delta-9 tetrahydrocannabinol concentration for eligibility as industrial hemp.
D. Only a licensed grower, harvester, processor or transporter or the director or the director's designee may transport industrial hemp off the industrial hemp site. When transporting industrial hemp off the industrial hemp site, the licensed grower, processor or transporter shall carry the licensing documents as evidence that the industrial hemp was grown by a licensed grower. This subsection does not apply to the transportation of hemp products.
E. A licensed grower shall notify the department of all of the following:
1. The sale or distribution of any industrial hemp grown under the grower's license.
2. The name and address of the person or entity receiving the industrial hemp.
3. The amount of the industrial hemp sold or distributed.
© 2024 Arizona State Legislature. All Rights Reserved