Title: 3
Article: 3-3110

Content:
Arizona Legislature
The Arizona Revised Statutes have been updated to include the revised sections from the 56th Legislature, 1st Regular Session.  Please note that the next update of this compilation will not take place until after the conclusion of the 56th Legislature, 2nd Regular Session, which convenes in January 2024.
This online version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is primarily maintained for legislative drafting purposes and reflects the version of law that is effective on January 1st of the year following the most recent legislative session.  The official version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is published by Thomson Reuters.
3-3110.Citations
A. If the assistant director, after an inspection or investigation, determines that there is reasonable cause to believe that a violation exists the assistant director shall with reasonable promptness recommend to the director that a citation be issued to the employer. If the director issues a citation it shall be in writing and shall contain the following:
1. A particular description of the nature of the violation, including a reference to the provision of this article, or of the standard or rule alleged to have been violated.
2. A reasonable time to abate the violation.
3. A notice that the employer may request a hearing if the employer is aggrieved by the citation.
B. A certified mail delivery receipt or a signed verification of delivery in person is prima facie evidence of the receipt of a citation.
C. Each citation or copy of a citation issued under this section shall be prominently posted at or near each place a violation referred to in the citation existed.
D. No citation may be issued after the expiration of a period of six months from the date of the inspection that produced evidence of the violation. If in the course of an investigation the department identifies any additional alleged violator, the department may investigate the additional alleged violator. No citation may be issued after the expiration of six months from the date the additional alleged violator is identified by the department.

© 2024 Arizona State Legislature. All Rights Reserved