Title: 3
Article: 3-3115

Content:
Arizona Legislature
The Arizona Revised Statutes have been updated to include the revised sections from the 56th Legislature, 1st Regular Session.  Please note that the next update of this compilation will not take place until after the conclusion of the 56th Legislature, 2nd Regular Session, which convenes in January 2024.
This online version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is primarily maintained for legislative drafting purposes and reflects the version of law that is effective on January 1st of the year following the most recent legislative session.  The official version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is published by Thomson Reuters.
3-3115.Imminent dangers
A. The superior court has jurisdiction on filing of a verified complaint by the director to restrain any conditions or practices in any place of employment which are such that a danger exists which could reasonably be expected to cause death or serious physical harm immediately or before the imminence of such danger can be eliminated through the enforcement procedures otherwise provided by this article. Any order issued under this section may require such steps to be taken as may be necessary to avoid, correct or remove such imminent danger and prohibit the employment or presence of any individual in locations or under conditions where such imminent danger exists, except individuals whose presence is necessary to avoid, correct or remove such imminent danger or to maintain the capacity of a continuous process operation to resume normal operations, or if a cessation of operations is necessary, to permit the cessation to be accomplished in a safe and orderly manner.
B. On the filing of any such complaint the superior court has jurisdiction to grant injunctive relief or a temporary restraining order pending the outcome of an enforcement proceeding pursuant to this article. The proceeding shall be as provided by the rules of civil procedure.
C. If, and as soon as, the director or his authorized representative concludes that conditions or practices described in subsection A exist in any place of employment, he shall inform the affected employees and employers of the danger and that he is recommending that relief be sought.
D. If the director or his authorized representative arbitrarily or capriciously fails to seek relief under this section, any employee who may be injured by reason of such failure or the representative of such employees may bring an action against the director in superior court for a writ of mandamus to compel the director to seek such an order and for such further relief as may be appropriate.
© 2024 Arizona State Legislature. All Rights Reserved