Title: 3
Article: 3-314

Content:
Arizona Legislature
The Arizona Revised Statutes have been updated to include the revised sections from the 56th Legislature, 1st Regular Session.  Please note that the next update of this compilation will not take place until after the conclusion of the 56th Legislature, 2nd Regular Session, which convenes in January 2024.
This online version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is primarily maintained for legislative drafting purposes and reflects the version of law that is effective on January 1st of the year following the most recent legislative session.  The official version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is published by Thomson Reuters.
3-314.Industrial hemp licenses; applications; fees; fingerprinting requirements; renewal; revocation
A. A grower, harvester, transporter or processor shall obtain an industrial hemp license from the department.
B. A grower, harvester, transporter or processor shall apply for a license pursuant to rules and orders adopted by the director.
C. An application for an original or renewal industrial hemp license shall comply with all of the following:
1. Be on a form that is provided by the department.
2. Include complete and accurate information.
3. Be accompanied by the license fee prescribed by the director. The director shall deposit, pursuant to sections 35-146 and 35-147, fees collected under this paragraph in the industrial hemp trust fund established by section 3-315.
D. An applicant shall provide proof to the department of having a valid fingerprint clearance card issued pursuant to section 41-1758.07 for the purpose of validating applicant eligibility.
E. A license issued pursuant to this section is valid for one year, unless revoked, and may be renewed as provided by the department.  Rather than renewing a licensee's license every year, a licensee may renew the licensee's license every two years by paying a license fee that is twice the amount designated by the fee schedule in rule that is adopted by the director and other applicable fees.  Licensees that renew every two years shall comply with any annual reporting requirements.
F. The department may revoke or refuse to issue or renew a license for a violation of any law of this state, any federal law or any rule or order adopted by the director.
G. A member of an Indian tribe may apply for a license pursuant to this section.  If a member of an Indian tribe is issued a license pursuant to this section, the member is subject to the requirements prescribed in this article.
© 2024 Arizona State Legislature. All Rights Reserved