Title: 3
Article: 3-312

Content:
Arizona Legislature
The Arizona Revised Statutes have been updated to include the revised sections from the 56th Legislature, 1st Regular Session.  Please note that the next update of this compilation will not take place until after the conclusion of the 56th Legislature, 2nd Regular Session, which convenes in January 2024.
This online version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is primarily maintained for legislative drafting purposes and reflects the version of law that is effective on January 1st of the year following the most recent legislative session.  The official version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is published by Thomson Reuters.
3-312.Legislative findings; purpose; authorization
A. The legislature finds and determines that developing and using industrial hemp can improve the economy and agricultural vitality of this state and that the production of industrial hemp can be regulated so as not to interfere with strict regulation of marijuana in this state.
B. The purposes of this article are:
1. To promote the economy and agriculture in this state by allowing institutions of higher learning and the department to develop and regulate industrial hemp as part of an agricultural pilot program for the purpose of research into the growth, cultivation and marketing of industrial hemp as authorized by the agricultural act of 2014 (P.L. 113-79; 128 Stat. 649; 7 United States Code section 5940).
2. To allow the commercial growth, cultivation and marketing of industrial hemp if the commercial growth, cultivation and marketing of industrial hemp is authorized by federal law, while maintaining strict control of marijuana.
C. Industrial hemp is an agricultural product that is subject to regulation by the department.
D. Industrial hemp propagation, processing, manufacturing, distribution and market research are authorized in this state under a preapproved agricultural pilot program.  Hemp seed that is authorized for an agricultural pilot program shall be certified solely through the department.  Unauthorized hemp seed may not be planted.  Hemp seed that is derived from previously authorized hemp seed is considered authorized hemp seed for the purposes of this article.
E. If authorized under federal law, the commercial production, processing, manufacturing, distribution and commerce of industrial hemp in this state is allowed outside of the agricultural pilot program.
© 2024 Arizona State Legislature. All Rights Reserved