Title: 3
Article: 3-3105

Content:
Arizona Legislature
The Arizona Revised Statutes have been updated to include the revised sections from the 56th Legislature, 1st Regular Session.  Please note that the next update of this compilation will not take place until after the conclusion of the 56th Legislature, 2nd Regular Session, which convenes in January 2024.
This online version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is primarily maintained for legislative drafting purposes and reflects the version of law that is effective on January 1st of the year following the most recent legislative session.  The official version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is published by Thomson Reuters.
3-3105.Powers and duties
The assistant director shall:
1. Administer this chapter.
2. Cooperate with the federal government to establish and maintain an agricultural safety and health program.
3. Propose to the director for adoption by the department standards and rules pursuant to section 3-3106, 3-3108 or 3-3109 and other rules that are necessary for the office to function efficiently.
4. Enforce all standards and rules adopted by the department pursuant to the procedures and requirements of this article.
5. Implement an agricultural safety and health program, including the following duties and responsibilities:
(a) Development of a statewide agricultural safety and health education and training program to acquaint employers, supervisors, employees and employee representatives with the most modern and effective techniques of accident prevention and agricultural health control.
(b) Development of training programs for employees of the office and, if necessary, development of certification programs for recognition of competent, trained personnel.
(c) Coordinate training programs with state and federal agencies including the university of Arizona college of agriculture, the United States department of agriculture and vocational education programs.
(d) Planning, organizing, conducting or attending safety and health seminars, conferences and meetings designed for management, supervisory personnel, employees and employee representatives and establishing liaison with other safety and health groups as may be necessary.
(e) Definition and establishment of necessary research projects.
(f) Arrangement and procurement of necessary contractual services and training aids.
(g) Development of specific agricultural safety and health programs for employer and employee representative groups.
6. Collect and analyze agricultural safety and health statistics generated by the industrial commission, the department of health services, the department of environmental quality and any other state or federal agency that produces such information.
7. Coordinate the responsibilities and functions of other administrative units in the department with regard to agricultural safety and health in order to develop a comprehensive statewide program.
© 2024 Arizona State Legislature. All Rights Reserved