Title: 3
Article: 3-3101

Content:
Arizona Legislature
The Arizona Revised Statutes have been updated to include the revised sections from the 56th Legislature, 1st Regular Session.  Please note that the next update of this compilation will not take place until after the conclusion of the 56th Legislature, 2nd Regular Session, which convenes in January 2024.
This online version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is primarily maintained for legislative drafting purposes and reflects the version of law that is effective on January 1st of the year following the most recent legislative session.  The official version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is published by Thomson Reuters.
3-3101.Definitions
In this article, unless the context otherwise requires:
1. "Assistant director" means the assistant director of the office of agricultural safety in the Arizona department of agriculture.
2. "De minimis violation" means a condition or practice which, although undesirable, has no direct or immediate relationship to safety or health.
3. "Employee" means any person performing agricultural services for an employer.
4. "Employer" means any individual or type of organization, including this state and its political subdivisions, which has in its employ one or more individuals performing agricultural services for it in employment, including self-employed persons.
5. "Interested party" means the office and its agents, the employer and the affected employees of the employer.
6. "Nonserious violation" means a condition or practice in a place of employment which does not constitute a serious violation but which violates a standard or rule and has a direct or immediate relationship to safety or health, unless the employer did not, and could not with the exercise of reasonable diligence, know of the presence of the condition or practice.
7. "Office" means the office of agricultural safety in the Arizona department of agriculture.
8. "Recognized hazard" means an unsafe or unhealthful condition or practice recognized as such with respect to the standard of knowledge in the industry.
9. "Rule" means a written rule of agricultural safety and health governing places of agricultural employment which is adopted pursuant to section 3-3106 or 3-3108, exclusive of standards.
10. "Serious violation" means a condition or practice in a place of agricultural employment which violates a standard or rule or section 3-3104, subsection A and produces a substantial probability that death or serious physical harm could result, unless the employer did not, and could not with the exercise of reasonable diligence, know of the presence of such condition or practice.
11. "Standard" means any agricultural safety and health standard which has been adopted and promulgated by a nationally recognized standards-producing organization or the federal government and has the same meaning as and includes the term "code".
12. "Trainer" means a person who is certified by the department pursuant to section 3-3125 for training individuals in agricultural health and safety standards.
13. "Workplace" means a location or site where temporary or permanent work is conducted in connection with agriculture.
© 2024 Arizona State Legislature. All Rights Reserved