Title: 3
Article: 3-311

Content:
Arizona Legislature
The Arizona Revised Statutes have been updated to include the revised sections from the 56th Legislature, 1st Regular Session.  Please note that the next update of this compilation will not take place until after the conclusion of the 56th Legislature, 2nd Regular Session, which convenes in January 2024.
This online version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is primarily maintained for legislative drafting purposes and reflects the version of law that is effective on January 1st of the year following the most recent legislative session.  The official version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is published by Thomson Reuters.
3-311.Definitions
In this article, unless the context otherwise requires:
1. "Agricultural pilot program" means the industrial hemp program that is designed to research the growth, cultivation and marketing of industrial hemp, hemp seeds and hemp products as authorized by this article and rules and orders adopted by the director pursuant to this article.
2. "Crop" means any industrial hemp that is grown under a single industrial hemp license issued by the department.
3. "Grower" means an individual, partnership, company or corporation that propagates industrial hemp under this article and rules and orders adopted by the director pursuant to this article.
4. "Harvester" means an individual, partnership, company or corporation that is licensed by the department to harvest industrial hemp for a licensed grower.
5. "Hemp products" means all products made from industrial hemp, including cloth, cordage, fiber, fuel, grain, paint, paper, construction materials, plastics and by-products derived from sterile hemp seed or hemp seed oil.  Hemp products excludes any product made to be ingested except food made from sterile hemp seed or hemp seed oil.
6. "Hemp seed" means any viable cannabis sativa L. seed that produces an industrial hemp plant that is subject to this article and rules and orders adopted by the director pursuant to this article.
7. "Industrial hemp" means the plant cannabis sativa L. and any part of such a plant, whether growing or not, with a delta-9 tetrahydrocannabinol concentration of not more than three-tenths percent on a dry-weight basis.
8. "Industrial hemp site" means the location in which a grower, harvester, transporter or processor possesses a crop, a harvested crop or hemp seed.
9. "License" means the authorization that is granted by the department to propagate, harvest, transport or process industrial hemp in this state under this article and rules and orders adopted by the director pursuant to this article.
10. "Licensee" means a grower, harvester, transporter or processor with a valid license.
11. "Processor" means an individual, partnership, company or corporation that is licensed by the department to receive industrial hemp for processing into hemp products or hemp seed.
12. "Transporter" means an individual, partnership, company or corporation that is licensed by the department to transport industrial hemp for a licensed grower to a processor.
© 2024 Arizona State Legislature. All Rights Reserved