Title: 3
Article: 3-3471

Content:
Arizona Legislature
The Arizona Revised Statutes have been updated to include the revised sections from the 56th Legislature, 1st Regular Session.  Please note that the next update of this compilation will not take place until after the conclusion of the 56th Legislature, 2nd Regular Session, which convenes in January 2024.
This online version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is primarily maintained for legislative drafting purposes and reflects the version of law that is effective on January 1st of the year following the most recent legislative session.  The official version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is published by Thomson Reuters.
3-3471.Registered service representative; powers; violation; classification
A. When any commercial device specified in this chapter is in commercial use and a valid license for the device has not been procured by the owner, the owner's agent or the operator of the device, the division, after giving notice of the licensing requirements to the owner, the owner's agent or the operator, shall prohibit the further commercial use of the unlicensed device until the proper license has been issued. The division may employ and attach to the device such forms, notices or security seals as it considers necessary to prevent the continued unauthorized use of the device.
B. A registered service representative may:
1. With approval of the division, remove an official rejection tag placed on a commercial device, vapor recovery system or vapor recovery component.
2. Place in service, until such time as an official examination can be made, a commercial device, vapor recovery system or vapor recovery component that has been officially rejected or placed out of service.
3. Place in service, until such time as an official examination can be made, a commercial device for which a commercial device application has been completed and submitted to the division.
C. The owner of any business who has not applied for and has not been issued a license for the right to do business, involving the use of a commercial device, by the division and who is found selling or offering for sale or delivering or distributing to a consumer is guilty of a class 2 misdemeanor, and the division shall confiscate and seize the commercial device or any vehicle tank, or vehicle tank and meter, or any other such measuring device used by the business for the sale, delivery or distribution as evidence.
D. The associate director and any other authorized personnel shall not be liable to the owner or any other persons, firms, partnerships, corporations, trusts or agencies for damages, directly or indirectly, caused by or resulting from the seizure.
E. If a commercial device licensed pursuant to this chapter is used contrary to any provision of this chapter or any rule adopted pursuant to this chapter, the division, in addition to any other penalty imposed by this chapter, shall suspend, revoke or refuse to renew the license.

© 2024 Arizona State Legislature. All Rights Reserved