Title: 3
Article: 3-3415

Content:
Arizona Legislature
The Arizona Revised Statutes have been updated to include the revised sections from the 56th Legislature, 1st Regular Session.  Please note that the next update of this compilation will not take place until after the conclusion of the 56th Legislature, 2nd Regular Session, which convenes in January 2024.
This online version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is primarily maintained for legislative drafting purposes and reflects the version of law that is effective on January 1st of the year following the most recent legislative session.  The official version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is published by Thomson Reuters.
3-3415.Enforcement powers of the associate director, agents and inspectors
A. When necessary for the enforcement of this chapter and rules adopted pursuant to this chapter, the associate director or the associate director's agents and inspectors shall:
1. Enter any commercial, nonprofit business or governmental premises during normal operating hours, except that if the premises are not open to the public, the associate director or the associate director's agents and inspectors shall first present their credentials.
2. Issue stop-use, hold and removal orders with respect to any weights and measures commercially used, stop-sale, hold and removal orders with respect to any commodities, bulk commodities or motor fuel kept, offered or exposed for sale, stop-use and hold orders with respect to a vapor recovery system or parts of a vapor recovery system and stop-use, stop-sale, hold and removal orders with respect to any motor fuel found to be in violation of this chapter or rules adopted pursuant to this chapter.
3. Seize for use as evidence, without formal warrant, any incorrect or unapproved weight, measure, package or commodity found to be used, retained, offered or exposed for sale or sold in violation of this chapter or rules adopted pursuant to this chapter.
4. Stop any commercial vehicle on reasonable cause to believe that the vehicle contains evidence of a violation of this chapter and, after presentment of the  credentials of the associate director or the associate director's  agents or inspectors, inspect the contents, require that the person in charge of the vehicle produce any documents in the person's possession concerning the contents and require the person to proceed with the vehicle to some specified place for inspection.
B. With respect to the enforcement of this chapter, the associate director or the associate director's agents or inspectors may issue a warning requiring corrective action or a citation to any violators of this chapter in accordance with section 13-3903.
C. The associate director or the associate director's agents or inspectors may apply for a special inspection warrant for inspection of real or personal property for the purpose of enforcement of this chapter. The special inspection warrant shall be issued as provided in section 49-433.

© 2024 Arizona State Legislature. All Rights Reserved