Title: 3
Article: 3-3416

Content:
Arizona Legislature
The Arizona Revised Statutes have been updated to include the revised sections from the 56th Legislature, 1st Regular Session.  Please note that the next update of this compilation will not take place until after the conclusion of the 56th Legislature, 2nd Regular Session, which convenes in January 2024.
This online version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is primarily maintained for legislative drafting purposes and reflects the version of law that is effective on January 1st of the year following the most recent legislative session.  The official version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is published by Thomson Reuters.
3-3416.State metrology laboratory; operation; standards; testing
A. The associate director shall establish and operate within the division the state metrology laboratory.
B. A commercial device shall not be approved for use in the state unless the design and construction comply with national institute of standards and technology requirements.
C. All commercial devices approved and certified shall meet the tolerance, design and construction requirements prescribed by the national institute of standards and technology.
D. All commercial devices that are determined unfit for approval shall be rejected without testing.
E. All weights, weight sets, measures, meters, counters or other devices that are used by registered service representatives shall show an indication of the approval date and jurisdiction issuing the approval.
F. All persons who install, service or repair commercial devices in this state shall submit the test equipment used to the division's metrology laboratory for approval at least annually. A certificate of approval that specifically identifies the test equipment and that is issued by another state laboratory may be accepted in lieu of submitting equipment if the other state laboratory is certified by the national institute of standards and technology.
G. All weights, measures, meters, counters or other devices shall be tested in the order they are scheduled in the laboratory unless arrangements for testing have been made in advance.
H. Work that is completed in the metrology laboratory shall be paid for pursuant to the fees prescribed in the rules of the division.

© 2024 Arizona State Legislature. All Rights Reserved