Title: 3
Article: 3-3493; Version 2

Content:
Arizona Legislature
The Arizona Revised Statutes have been updated to include the revised sections from the 56th Legislature, 1st Regular Session.  Please note that the next update of this compilation will not take place until after the conclusion of the 56th Legislature, 2nd Regular Session, which convenes in January 2024.
This online version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is primarily maintained for legislative drafting purposes and reflects the version of law that is effective on January 1st of the year following the most recent legislative session.  The official version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is published by Thomson Reuters.
3-3493.Area A; fuel reformulation; rules

(L17, Ch. 295, sec. 2.  Conditionally Eff.)

A.  All gasoline produced and shipped to or within this state and sold or offered for sale for use in motor vehicles in a county with a population of one million two hundred thousand or more persons and any portion of a county contained in area A, subject to an appropriate waiver granted by the administrator of the United States environmental protection agency pursuant to section 211(c)(4) of the clean air act as defined in section 49-401.01, shall comply with either of the following fuel reformulation options:
1. A gasoline that meets standards for federal phase II reformulated gasoline, as provided in 40 Code of Federal Regulations section 80.41, paragraphs (e) through (h), in effect on January 1, 1999, except that the minimum oxygen content standard does not apply. The gasoline shall also meet the maximum vapor pressure requirements in section 3-3433, subsections D and F.
2. California phase 2 reformulated gasoline, including alternative formulations allowed by the predictive model, as adopted by the California air resources board pursuant to California Code of Regulations title 13, sections 2261 through 2262.7 and 2265, in effect on January 1, 1997, except that the minimum oxygen content standard does not apply. The gasoline shall also meet the maximum vapor pressure requirements in section 3-3433, subsections D and F.
B. For the period beginning November 1 through March 31 of each year, all gasoline produced and shipped to or within this state and sold or offered for sale for use in motor vehicles in a county with a population of one million two hundred thousand or more persons and any portion of a county contained in area A, subject to an appropriate waiver granted by the administrator of the United States environmental protection agency pursuant to section 211(c)(4) of the clean air act as defined in section 49-401.01, shall comply with standards for California phase 2 reformulated gasoline, including alternative formulations allowed by the predictive model, as adopted by the California air resources board pursuant to California Code of Regulations title 13, sections 2261 through 2262.7 and 2265, in effect on January 1, 1997 and shall meet the maximum vapor pressure requirements in section 3-3433, subsections D and F. The fuel described in this subsection shall meet the requirements of section 3-3492, subsection A, paragraph 1 or 2.
C. Any registered supplier or oxygenate blender, as defined in division rules, may petition the associate director to request that all registered suppliers or oxygenate blenders be allowed to comply with standards other than the standards prescribed by section 3-3492, subsection A if the petitioner can demonstrate that ethanol supply shortages are imminent.
D. The petition shall:
1. Identify specific supply conditions that will result in a shortage of ethanol.
2. Identify which oxygenate or oxygenates and the concentration that will be blended into gasoline for sale or use in area A.
3. Demonstrate that the alternative oxygenate blend comes closest to meeting a three and one-half percent by weight oxygen content at reasonable cost, unless the registered supplier or oxygenate blender is petitioning to use a gasoline-ethanol blend containing less than ten percent by volume of ethanol.
4. Specify a time period for compliance with any provision of section 3-3492, subsection A, not to exceed sixty days.
E. The associate director shall either grant or deny the petition in writing within seven days of its receipt. Any decision by the associate director to grant the petition shall be equally applicable to all registered suppliers or oxygenate blenders and shall not be selectively applied to any single registered supplier or oxygenate blender. The petition may be granted only if the associate director verifies that the basis for requesting the petition is factual.
F. The associate director may reauthorize a petition if the petitioner can demonstrate that the conditions have continued. The reauthorization of a petition shall not exceed thirty days.
G. The associate director of the division shall consult with the director of the department of environmental quality before granting, reauthorizing or denying any such petition.
H. The director of environmental quality in consultation with the associate director of the division shall adopt by rule:
1. Requirements to implement subsections A, B, C and D of this section.
2. Requirements for recordkeeping, reporting and analytical methods for fuel providers to demonstrate compliance with subsections A, B, C and D of this section.
I. This section does not apply to fuel sold for use at a motor vehicle manufacturer proving ground or at a motor vehicle racing event.

© 2024 Arizona State Legislature. All Rights Reserved