Title: 3
Article: 3-3433

Content:
Arizona Legislature
The Arizona Revised Statutes have been updated to include the revised sections from the 56th Legislature, 1st Regular Session.  Please note that the next update of this compilation will not take place until after the conclusion of the 56th Legislature, 2nd Regular Session, which convenes in January 2024.
This online version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is primarily maintained for legislative drafting purposes and reflects the version of law that is effective on January 1st of the year following the most recent legislative session.  The official version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is published by Thomson Reuters.
3-3433.Standards for motor fuel; exceptions
A. Except as provided in section 3-3434 and subsections C, D, E, F, G and K of this section, a retail seller or fleet owner shall not store, sell or expose or offer for sale any motor fuel, kerosene, oil or other liquid or gaseous fuel or lubricating oil, lubricant, mixtures of lubricants or other similar products if the product fails to meet the standards specified in this section and in the rules adopted by the associate director.
B. A person shall not misrepresent the nature, origination, quality, grade or identity of any product specified in subsection A of this section or represent the nature, origination, quality, grade or identity of such product in any manner calculated or tending to mislead or in any way deceive.  This subsection does not prohibit product origination disclaimer labeling on the retail dispenser.
C. After consultation with the director of the department of environmental quality, the standards and test methods for motor fuels shall be established by the associate director of the division by rule.
D. Maximum vapor pressure for gasoline that is supplied or sold by any person and that is intended as a final product for the fueling of motor vehicles in a county with a population of one million two hundred thousand or more persons and any portion of a county contained in area A shall be 9.0 pounds per square inch from and after September 30 through March 31 of each year. Fuel used in motor vehicles at a manufacturer's proving ground or a motor vehicle racing event is exempt from this subsection.
E. From and after September 30 through March 31 of each year, a person shall not supply or sell gasoline that exceeds the ASTM D4814 class A vapor pressure/distillation class ten volume percent evaporated distillation temperature.
F. Maximum vapor pressure for gasoline that is supplied or sold by any person and that is intended as a final product for the fueling of motor vehicles in a county with a population of one million two hundred thousand persons or more and any portion of a county contained in area A shall be 7.0 pounds per square inch from and after May 31 through September 30 of each year. Fuel used in motor vehicles at a manufacturer's proving ground or a motor vehicle racing event is exempt from this subsection.
G. Exclusively for the purposes of transportation conformity and only if the administrator of the United States environmental protection agency fails to approve the applicable plan required pursuant to section 49-406, maximum vapor pressure for gasoline that is supplied or sold by any person and that is intended as a final product for the fueling of motor vehicles in area B shall be ten pounds per square inch from and after September 30 through March 31 of each year. Fuel used in motor vehicles at a manufacturer's proving ground or a motor vehicle racing event is exempt from this subsection.
H. Notwithstanding subsections D, F and G of this section, the associate director of the division in consultation with the director of the department of environmental quality shall approve alternate fuel control measures that are submitted by gasoline providers and that the director and the associate director determine will result in either of the following:
1. Motor vehicle carbon monoxide emissions that are equal to or less than emissions that result under compliance with subsection D of this section and section 3-3492. In making this determination, the associate director of the division and the director of the department of environmental quality shall compare the emissions of the alternate fuel control measure with the emissions of a fuel with a maximum vapor pressure standard as prescribed by this section and with the minimum oxygen content or percentage by volume of ethanol as prescribed by section 3-3492.
2. Motor vehicle non-methane hydrocarbon emissions that are equal to or less than the emissions that result under compliance with subsection F of this section. In making this determination, the associate director of the division and the director of the department of environmental quality shall compare the motor vehicle non-methane hydrocarbon emissions of the alternate fuel control measure with the motor vehicle non-methane hydrocarbon emissions of a fuel that complies with the maximum vapor pressure standard as prescribed by subsection F of this section.
I. Any alternate fuel control measures that are approved shall not increase emissions of non-methane hydrocarbons, particulates, carbon monoxide or oxides of nitrogen. Alternate fuel control measures approved pursuant to subsection H of this section and this subsection may be used by any gasoline provider unless the approval is rescinded more than one hundred eighty days before the first day of a gasoline control period. Gasoline providers that use an approved alternate fuel control measure shall annually submit a compliance plan to the associate director no later than sixty days before the first day of a gasoline control period.
J. A person shall not sell or offer or expose for sale diesel fuel grade 1, 2 or 4 as defined in ASTM D975, biodiesel, biodiesel blends or biomass-based diesel or biomass-based diesel blends that contain sulfur in excess of fifteen parts per million.  Locomotive and marine diesel fuel is exempt from this requirement if the fuel meets the requirements of 40 Code of Federal Regulations section 80.513(g) and (h).
K. A person shall label dispensers at which biodiesel, biodiesel blends, biomass-based diesel or biomass-based diesel blends are dispensed in conformance with 16 Code of Federal Regulations part 306.  This section does not preclude a person from labeling a dispenser that dispenses diesel fuel that contains up to five percent biodiesel or biomass-based diesel with a label that states "may contain up to five percent biodiesel" or "may contain up to five percent biomass-based diesel".
L. For biodiesel blends that contain more than five percent by volume of biodiesel, a person shall prepare product transfer documents in a manner that notifies the transferee of the percent by volume of biodiesel in the product.
M. The associate director shall adopt rules regarding the establishment and enforcement of all of the following:
1. National or federal standards for individual biofuels and biofuel blends.
2. United States environmental protection agency and ASTM test methods for individual biofuels and biofuel blends.
3. Registration and reporting requirements for producers, blenders and suppliers of biofuels and biofuel blends.
4. Labeling requirements for biofuels and biofuel blends other than biodiesel or biodiesel blends.
5. Quality assurance and quality control programs for producers, blenders and suppliers of biofuels and biofuel blends addressing rack, batch or other blending.
6. Requirements that the dispensing equipment meet appropriate UL ratings where available and applicable, that the equipment comply with rules adopted by the division relating to approval, installation and sale of devices and that the equipment be compatible with the products being dispensed.
N. A biofuels or biofuel blends producer, blender, distributor, supplier or retail seller that is in compliance with this section and the rules adopted pursuant to this section is not liable to a consumer for any injuries or property damage related to a consumer who misfuels.
O. If any person transfers custody or title of a diesel fuel or distillate, biodiesel, a biodiesel blend, biomass-based diesel or a biomass-based diesel blend, except if the fuel is dispensed into a motor vehicle or nonroad, locomotive or marine equipment, the transferor shall provide to the transferee product transfer documents that conform with 40 Code of Federal Regulations section 80.590.
P. If the transfer of a motor fuel is from a terminal, storage facility, or transmix facility, the product transfer documents shall contain the information prescribed in subsection O of this section.  In addition, the fuel transporter shall ensure that the name and address of the final destination for the shipment, as prescribed by division rule, are included and that the product transfer documents accompany the shipment to its final destination.

© 2024 Arizona State Legislature. All Rights Reserved