Title: 3
Article: 3-3473

Content:
Arizona Legislature
The Arizona Revised Statutes have been updated to include the revised sections from the 56th Legislature, 1st Regular Session.  Please note that the next update of this compilation will not take place until after the conclusion of the 56th Legislature, 2nd Regular Session, which convenes in January 2024.
This online version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is primarily maintained for legislative drafting purposes and reflects the version of law that is effective on January 1st of the year following the most recent legislative session.  The official version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is published by Thomson Reuters.
3-3473.Violations; classification; jurisdiction
A. A person is guilty of a class 1 misdemeanor who:
1. Knowingly hinders, interferes with or obstructs in any way the associate director or any of the associate director's agents or inspectors in entering the premises where a commercial device may be kept for inspecting or testing or in the performance of the official duties of the associate director or the associate director's agent or inspector.
2. Impersonates in any way the associate director or any one of the associate director's agents or inspectors by the use of the associate director's seal or badge or a counterfeit of the associate director's seal or badge, or in any other manner.
3. Uses, or possesses for the purpose of using for any commercial purpose, sells, offers or exposes for sale or hire, or possesses for the purpose of selling or hiring an incorrect weight or measure or any device or instrument used or calculated to falsify any weight or measure.
4. Sells, or offers or exposes for sale, less than the quantity the person represents of any commodity, thing or service.
5. Takes more than the quantity the person represents of any commodity, thing or service, when, as buyer, the person furnishes the weight or measure by means of which the amount of the commodity, thing or service is determined.
B. A person is guilty of a class 2 misdemeanor who:
1. Uses, or possesses for the purpose of current use for any commercial purpose, a weight or measure that does not bear a seal or mark of approval based on inspection and test as provided in section 3-3414, subsection A, paragraph 11, unless the weight or measure has been exempted from testing by order of the division, or unless the device has been placed in service as provided in this chapter. Any person or persons making use of a commercial device that is subject to this chapter shall report to the associate director or the associate director's representatives, in writing, the number and location of the commercial device and shall promptly report the installation of any new commercial device.
2. Disposes of any rejected or condemned weight or measure in a manner contrary to law or rule.
3. Removes from any weight or measure, contrary to law or rule, any tag, seal or mark placed on the weight or measure by the appropriate authority pursuant to this chapter.
4. Keeps for the purpose of selling, advertising or offering or exposing for sale or sells any commodity, thing or service in a condition or manner contrary to law or rule.
5. Uses in retail trade, except in the preparation of packages put up in advance of sale and of medical prescriptions, a weight or measure that is so positioned that its indications may not be accurately read and the weighing, metering, measuring or counting operation observed from some position that may reasonably be assumed by a customer.
6. Violates this chapter or rules adopted under this chapter. A continuing violation may be deemed to be a separate violation each day during which the violation is committed for the purpose of imposing a fine.
C. The provisions of this section are in addition to and not in limitation of any other provision of law.
D. The attorney general and the county attorney shall have concurrent jurisdiction to prosecute violations of this chapter.

© 2024 Arizona State Legislature. All Rights Reserved