Title: 3
Article: 3-3492

Content:
Arizona Legislature
The Arizona Revised Statutes have been updated to include the revised sections from the 56th Legislature, 1st Regular Session.  Please note that the next update of this compilation will not take place until after the conclusion of the 56th Legislature, 2nd Regular Session, which convenes in January 2024.
This online version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is primarily maintained for legislative drafting purposes and reflects the version of law that is effective on January 1st of the year following the most recent legislative session.  The official version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is published by Thomson Reuters.
3-3492.Area A; sale of gasoline; oxygen content
A. From and after November 1 through March 31 of each year:
1. All gasoline that is supplied or sold by any person and that is intended as a final product for the fueling of motor vehicles within a county with a population of one million two hundred thousand or more persons and any portion of a county contained in area A or that is consumed in a motor vehicle in a county with a population of one million two hundred thousand or more persons and any portion of a county contained in area A by a fleet owner shall, for a gasoline-ethanol blend, contain not less than ten percent by volume of ethanol nor more than the maximum percentage of oxygen allowed by provisions of a waiver issued or other limits established by the United States environmental protection agency.
2. All gasoline that is supplied or sold by any person and that is intended as a final product for the fueling of motor vehicles within a county with a population of one million two hundred thousand or more persons and any portion of a county contained in area A or that is consumed in a motor vehicle within a county with a population of one million two hundred thousand or more persons and any portion of a county contained in area A by a fleet owner shall, for a blend other than a gasoline-ethanol blend, contain not less than 2.7 percent by weight of oxygen nor more than the maximum percentage of oxygen allowed by provisions of a waiver issued or other limits established by the United States environmental protection agency.
B. Notwithstanding subsection A of this section, the associate director of the division in consultation with the director of the department of environmental quality shall approve alternate fuel control measures that are submitted by gasoline providers and that the director and the associate director determine will result in motor vehicle carbon monoxide emissions that are equal to or less than emissions that result under compliance with subsection A of this section and section 3-3433. In making this determination, the associate director of the division and the director of the department of environmental quality shall compare the emissions of the alternate fuel control measure with the emissions of a fuel with a maximum vapor pressure standard as prescribed by section 3-3433 and with the minimum oxygen content or percentage by volume of ethanol as prescribed by this section.
C. Any alternate fuel control measures that are approved shall not increase emissions of non-methane hydrocarbons, particulates, carbon monoxide or oxides of nitrogen. Alternate fuel control measures approved pursuant to subsection B of this section and this subsection may be used by any gasoline provider unless the approval is rescinded more than one hundred eighty days before the first day of a gasoline control period. Gasoline providers that use an approved alternate fuel control measure shall annually submit a compliance plan to the associate director no later than sixty days before the first day of a gasoline control period.

© 2024 Arizona State Legislature. All Rights Reserved