Title: 3
Article: 3-3475

Content:
Arizona Legislature
The Arizona Revised Statutes have been updated to include the revised sections from the 56th Legislature, 1st Regular Session.  Please note that the next update of this compilation will not take place until after the conclusion of the 56th Legislature, 2nd Regular Session, which convenes in January 2024.
This online version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is primarily maintained for legislative drafting purposes and reflects the version of law that is effective on January 1st of the year following the most recent legislative session.  The official version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is published by Thomson Reuters.
3-3475.Civil penalties; hearing
A. A person who violates this chapter, any rule of the division or any license requirement is subject to a civil penalty imposed by the associate director.
B. A person who violates this chapter, any rule of the division or any license requirement may request an informal or formal hearing to review a civil penalty imposed under this section. If the person requests an informal hearing, the division may conduct the informal hearing, in person or telephonically, to resolve a warning or citation.  If the person requests a formal hearing or the warning or citation is not resolved in the informal hearing, the division shall conduct a formal hearing in accordance with title 41, chapter 6, article 10. Except as prescribed in subsection C of this section, the civil penalty shall not exceed one thousand dollars for each infraction nor more than ten thousand dollars for any thirty-day period at each business location, for each registered service representative or for each public weighmaster, provided that no person shall be assessed more than fifty thousand dollars per thirty-day period.
C. The associate director may double the maximum civil penalty if any of the following applies:
1. A commercial device is found to be in violation with results that favor the retailer at more than twice the allowable tolerance as stated in national institute of standards and technology handbook 44.
2. A package is found to exceed the maximum allowable variation for the labeled quantity allowed in national institute of standards and technology handbook 133 or the average error of the lot is twice the sample error limit in favor of the retailer.
3. A vapor recovery system reinspection fails the required tests.
4. A maximum civil penalty has been imposed on a retailer for a price posting or price verification violation and in a reinspection, if conducted within ninety days, the failure rate is ten percent or more and at least one error is in favor of the retailer.
5. A maximum civil penalty has been imposed on a refiner, refinery, pipeline, terminal, fuel transporter, registered supplier or transmix processing facility for a violation of motor fuel quality standards or producing a product transfer document that is incorrect, incomplete or produced in any manner tending to mislead or deceive a person.
D. The attorney general shall bring actions to recover civil penalties pursuant to this section in the superior court in the county in which the violation occurred or in a county where the agency has its office.  All monies derived from civil penalties shall be deposited, pursuant to sections 35-146 and 35-147, in the state general fund.

© 2024 Arizona State Legislature. All Rights Reserved