Title: 3
Article: 3-3401

Content:
Arizona Legislature
The Arizona Revised Statutes have been updated to include the revised sections from the 56th Legislature, 1st Regular Session.  Please note that the next update of this compilation will not take place until after the conclusion of the 56th Legislature, 2nd Regular Session, which convenes in January 2024.
This online version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is primarily maintained for legislative drafting purposes and reflects the version of law that is effective on January 1st of the year following the most recent legislative session.  The official version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is published by Thomson Reuters.
3-3401.Definitions
In this chapter, unless the context otherwise requires:
1. "Area A" has the same meaning prescribed in section 49-541.
2. "Area B" has the same meaning prescribed in section 49-541.
3. "Area C" means that portion of Pinal county lying west of range 11 east, excluding that portion of the county lying within area A as defined in section 49-541 and that portion of the county within the jurisdiction of any Indian tribe, band, group or community that is recognized by the United States secretary of the interior and that exercises governmental authority within the limits of any Indian reservation under the jurisdiction of the United States government, notwithstanding the issuance of any patent and including rights-of-way running through the reservation.
4. "Associate director" means the associate director of the division.
5. "Biodiesel" means a mono-alkyl ester that meets ASTM D6751.
6. "Biodiesel blend" means a motor fuel that is composed of biodiesel and diesel fuel and that is designated by the letter "B", followed by the numeric value of the volume percentage of biodiesel in the blend.
7. "Biofuel" means a solid, liquid or gaseous fuel that is derived from biomass and that can be used directly for heating or power or as a blend component in motor fuel.
8. "Biofuel blend" means a motor fuel that is composed of a biofuel, that is combined with a petroleum-based fuel and that is designated by the volume percentage of biofuel in the blend.
9. "Biomass" means biological material, such as plant or animal matter, excluding organic material that has been transformed by geological processes into substances such as coal or petroleum or derivatives thereof, that may be transformed into biofuel.
10. "Biomass-based diesel" means a diesel fuel substitute produced from nonpetroleum renewable resources that meets the registration requirements for fuels and fuel additives established by the United States environmental protection agency under 42 United States Code 7545 and includes fuel derived from animal wastes, including poultry wastes and other waste materials, municipal solid waste and sludge and oil derived from wastewater and the treatment of wastewater.  Biomass-based diesel does not include biodiesel.
11. "Biomass-based diesel blend" means a blend of petroleum-based diesel fuel with biomass-based diesel.
12. "Certification" means the process of determining the accuracy of a commercial device to the standards of this state by a registered service representative or the division.
13. "Commercial device" means any weighing, measuring, metering or counting device that is used to determine the direct cost of things sold or offered or exposed for sale, or used to establish a fee for service if the cost is based on weight, measure or count, except that it does not include those devices used for in-house packaging, inventory control or law enforcement purposes.
14. "Commodity" means any merchandise, product or substance produced or distributed for sale to or use by others.
15. "Correct" as used in connection with weights and measures means conformance to all applicable requirements of this chapter.
16. "Diesel fuel" means a refined middle distillate that is used as a fuel in a compression-ignition internal combustion engine and that meets the specifications of ASTM D975.
17. "Division" means the weights and measures services division of the department.
18. "Ethanol flex fuel" means a fuel ethanol gasoline blend that meets the specifications of ASTM D5798 standard specification for ethanol fuel blends for flexible-fuel automotive spark-ignition engines.
19. "Fleet owner" means a registered owner or lessee of at least twenty-five vehicles.
20. "Gasoline" means a volatile, highly flammable liquid mixture of hydrocarbons that does not contain more than five one-hundredths grams of lead for each United States gallon, that is produced, refined, manufactured, blended, distilled or compounded from petroleum, natural gas, oil, shale oils or coal and other flammable liquids free from undissolved water, sediment or suspended matter, with or without additives, and that is commonly used as a fuel for spark-ignition internal combustion engines. Gasoline does not include diesel fuel or ethanol flex fuel.
21. "Gasoline provider" means any manufacturer of gasoline or any person who imports gasoline into a vehicle emissions control area by means of a pipeline or in truckload quantities for the person's own use within the vehicle emissions control area or any person who sells gasoline intended for ultimate consumption within a vehicle emissions control area. Gasoline provider does not mean a person with respect to a gasoline supplied or sold by the person to another person for resale to a retailer within a vehicle emissions control area or to a fleet owner for consumption within a vehicle emissions control area.
22. "Inspector" means a state official of the division.
23. "Liquid measuring device" means any meter, pump, tank, gauge or apparatus used for volumetrically determining the quantity of any internal combustion engine fuel, liquefied petroleum gas or low viscosity heating oil.
24. "Manufacturer's proving ground" means a facility whose sole purpose is to develop complete advanced vehicles for an automotive manufacturer.
25. "Misfuel" means the act of dispensing into the fuel tank of a motor vehicle a motor fuel that was not intended to be used in the engine of that motor vehicle.
26. "Motor fuel" means a petroleum or a petroleum-based substance that is motor gasoline, aviation gasoline, number one or number two diesel fuel or any grade of oxygenated gasoline typically used in the operation of a motor engine, including biodiesel blends, biofuel blends and ethanol flex fuels.
27. "Motor vehicle racing event" means a race that uses unlicensed vehicles designed and manufactured specifically for racing purposes and that is conducted on a public or private racecourse for the entertainment of the general public. Motor vehicle racing event includes practice, qualifying and demonstration laps conducted as part of the activities related to a motor vehicle race.
28. "Oxygenate" means any oxygen-containing ashless, organic compound, including aliphatic alcohols and aliphatic ethers, that may be used as a fuel or as a gasoline blending component and that is approved as a blending agent under the provisions of a waiver issued by the United States environmental protection agency pursuant to 42 United States Code section 7545(f).
29. "Oxygenated fuel" means an unleaded motor fuel blend that consists primarily of gasoline and at least one and one-half percent by weight of one or more oxygenates and that has been blended consistent with the provisions of a waiver issued by the United States environmental protection agency pursuant to 42 United States Code section 7545(f).
30. "Package" means any commodity enclosed in a container or wrapped in any manner in advance of sale in units suitable for either wholesale or retail trade.
31. "Person" means both the plural and the singular, as the case demands, and includes individuals, partnerships, corporations, companies, societies and associations.
32. "Product transfer document" means any bill of lading, loading ticket, manifest, delivery receipt, invoice or other documentation used on any occasion when a person transfers custody or title of motor fuel other than when motor fuel is sold or dispensed at a service station or fleet vehicle fueling facility.
33. "Public weighmaster" means any person who is engaged in any of the following:
(a) The business of weighing any object or thing for the public generally for hire or for internal use and issuing for that weighing a weight certificate intended to be accepted as an accurate weight on which a purchase or sale is to be based or on which a service fee is to be charged.
(b) The business of weighing for-hire motor vehicles, trailers or semitrailers and issuing weight certificates intended to be accepted as an accurate weight for the purpose of determining the amount of any tax, fee or other assessment on the vehicles.
34. "Reference standards" means the physical standards of the state that serve as the legal reference from which all other standards and weights and measures are derived.
35. "Registered service agency" means any agency, firm, company or corporation that for hire, award, commission or any other payment of any kind installs, services, repairs or reconditions a commercial device or tests or repairs vapor recovery systems or vapor recovery components and that has been issued a license by the division.
36. "Registered service representative" means any individual who for hire, award, commission or any other payment of any kind installs, services, repairs or reconditions a commercial device or tests or repairs vapor recovery systems or vapor recovery components and who has been issued a license by the division.
37. "Retail seller" means a person whose business purpose is to sell, expose or offer for sale or use any package or commodity by weight, measure or count.
38. "Secondary standards" means the physical standards that are traceable to the reference standards through comparisons, using acceptable laboratory procedures, and that are used in the enforcement of weights and measures laws and rules.
39. "Supplier" means any person that imports gasoline into a vehicle emissions control area by means of a pipeline or in truckload quantities for the person's own use within the vehicle emissions control area or any person that sells gasoline intended for ultimate consumption within a vehicle emissions control area, except that supplier does not mean a person with respect to gasoline supplied or sold by the person to another for resale to a retailer within a vehicle emissions control area or to a fleet owner for consumption within a vehicle emissions control area.
40. "Vehicle emissions control area" means a county with a population of one million two hundred thousand or more persons and any portion of a county contained in area A, or any portion of area B or C, except that such an area does not include a manufacturer's proving ground that is located in the vehicle emissions control area.
41. "Weight" as used in connection with any commodity means net weight.
42. "Weights" or "measures", or both, means all weights, measures, meters or counters of every kind, instruments and devices for weighing, measuring, metering or counting and any appliance and accessories associated with any or all such instruments and devices.

© 2024 Arizona State Legislature. All Rights Reserved