Title: 3
Article: 3-3491

Content:
Arizona Legislature
The Arizona Revised Statutes have been updated to include the revised sections from the 56th Legislature, 1st Regular Session.  Please note that the next update of this compilation will not take place until after the conclusion of the 56th Legislature, 2nd Regular Session, which convenes in January 2024.
This online version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is primarily maintained for legislative drafting purposes and reflects the version of law that is effective on January 1st of the year following the most recent legislative session.  The official version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is published by Thomson Reuters.
3-3491.Standards for oxygenated fuel; volatility; exceptions
A. From and after September 30 through March 31 of each year, in a county with a population of one million two hundred thousand or more persons and in any portion of a county contained in area A, blends of gasoline with ethanol shall not exceed the volatility requirements prescribed by section 3-3433 and rules adopted by the associate director under that section.  From and after September 30 through March 31 of each year, in area B, blends of gasoline with ethanol may exceed the volatility requirements prescribed by section 3-3433 and rules adopted by the associate director under that section by up to one pound per square inch if the base fuel meets the requirements of ASTM D4814 and the final gasoline-ethanol blend contains at least six percent ethanol by volume but does not exceed United States environmental protection agency waivers.  For any other locations and period of time, blends of gasoline with ethanol shall meet the volatility requirements as determined by division rule.
B. Notwithstanding subsection D of this section, the associate director of the division in consultation with the director of the department of environmental quality shall approve alternate fuel control measures that are submitted by gasoline providers and that the director and the associate director determine will result in motor vehicle carbon monoxide emission reductions that will equal or exceed the reductions that result under subsection D of this section. In making those determinations, the director of the department of environmental quality and the associate director shall compare the alternative measure against the emission reduction that would be obtained from a fuel with the maximum vapor pressure standard prescribed by subsection D of this section and the minimum oxygen standard prescribed by section 3-3492 or 3-3495.  Alternative fuel control measures approved by the associate director of the division in consultation with the director of the department of environmental quality may be used by any gasoline provider unless the approval is rescinded by the associate director of the division at least one hundred eighty days before the beginning of any oxygenate period in the future. Gasoline providers that choose to use an approved alternate fuel control measure shall annually submit a compliance plan to the associate director not later than sixty days before the start of the oxygenate period.
C. From and after September 30 through March 31 of each year, all blends of gasoline with alcohol other than ethanol shall satisfy all of the requirements prescribed by section 3-3433 and rules adopted by the associate director under that section and the provisions of a waiver issued by the United States environmental protection agency pursuant to 42 United States Code section 7545(f).
D. Notwithstanding subsection A of this section, if the director of the department of environmental quality has previously raised the minimum oxygen content to the maximum percentage of oxygen allowed for each oxygenate as provided by section  3-3495, the designated air quality planning agency for area B has considered, analyzed and reviewed the costs and benefits of all other reasonable and available control measures in lieu of reducing volatility requirements to nine pounds per square inch and the director of the department of environmental quality finds that area B has failed to maintain the carbon monoxide national ambient air quality standards by violating the standard, beginning with the oxygenate period beginning on the following September 30 and for each oxygenate period thereafter in area B, the volatility requirements described by section 3-3433, subsection G may be reduced to nine pounds per square inch. If a violation of the carbon monoxide national ambient air quality standards is recorded after the volatility requirements have been reduced to nine pounds per square inch, the director of the department of environmental quality shall remove the one pound per square inch waiver for gasoline-ethanol blends.
E. Gasoline that is supplied or sold by any person and that is intended as a final product for the fueling of motor vehicles within this state shall not contain the following:
1. Methyl tertiary butyl ether that exceeds 0.3 percent by volume.
2. A total of more than 0.10 percent oxygen by weight collectively from all of the following oxygenates:
(a) Diisopropylether (DIPE).
(b) Ethyl tert-butylether (ETBE).
(c) Isopropanol.
(d) Methanol.
(e) N-butanol.
(f) N-propanol.
(g) Sec-butanol.
(h) Tert-amylmethylether (TAME).
(i) Tert-butanol.
(j) Tert-pentanol (tert-amylalcohol).
F. Subsection E of this section does not prohibit the transshipment through this state, including storage incident to that transshipment, of gasoline that contains the oxygenates prescribed by subsection E of this section if both of the following apply:
1. The gasoline is used or disposed outside this state.
2. The gasoline is segregated from gasoline that is intended for use inside this state.

© 2024 Arizona State Legislature. All Rights Reserved