Title: 3
Article: 3-3434

Content:
Arizona Legislature
The Arizona Revised Statutes have been updated to include the revised sections from the 56th Legislature, 1st Regular Session.  Please note that the next update of this compilation will not take place until after the conclusion of the 56th Legislature, 2nd Regular Session, which convenes in January 2024.
This online version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is primarily maintained for legislative drafting purposes and reflects the version of law that is effective on January 1st of the year following the most recent legislative session.  The official version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is published by Thomson Reuters.
3-3434.Area C; standards for motor fuel; exceptions
A. Except as provided in subsections C and D of this section, after May 31, 2008, a retail seller or fleet owner shall not store, sell or expose or offer for sale in area C any motor fuel, kerosene, oil or other liquid or gaseous fuel or lubricating oil, lubricant, mixtures of lubricants or other similar products if the product fails to meet the standards specified in this section and in the rules adopted by the associate director.
B. A person shall not misrepresent the nature, origination, quality, grade or identity of any product specified in subsection A of this section or represent the nature, origination, quality, grade or identity of such product in any manner calculated or tending to mislead or in any way deceive.
C. After consultation with the director of the department of environmental quality, the standards and test methods for motor fuels shall be established by the associate director of the division by rule.
D. Maximum vapor pressure for gasoline that is supplied or sold by any person and that is intended as a final product for the fueling of motor vehicles in area C shall be 7.0 pounds per square inch from and after May 31 through September 30 of each year. Fuel used in motor vehicles at a manufacturer's proving ground or a motor vehicle racing event is exempt from this subsection.
E. The associate director of the division in consultation with the director of the department of environmental quality shall approve alternate fuel control measures that are submitted by gasoline providers and that the director and associate director determine will result in motor vehicle non-methane hydrocarbon emissions that are equal to or less than the emissions that result under compliance with subsection D of this section.  In making this determination, the associate director of the division and the director of the department of environmental quality shall compare the motor vehicle non-methane hydrocarbon emissions of the alternate fuel control measure with the motor vehicle non-methane hydrocarbon emissions of a fuel that complies with the maximum vapor pressure standard as prescribed by subsection D of this section.
F. Any alternate fuel control measures that are approved shall not increase emissions of non-methane hydrocarbons, particulates, carbon monoxide or oxides of nitrogen.  Alternate fuel control measures approved pursuant to subsection E of this section and this subsection may be used by any gasoline provider unless the approval is rescinded more than one hundred eighty days before the first day of a gasoline control period. Gasoline providers that use an approved alternate fuel control measure shall annually submit a compliance plan to the associate director no later than sixty days before the first day of a gasoline control period.

© 2024 Arizona State Legislature. All Rights Reserved