Title: 3
Article: 3-3437

Content:
Arizona Legislature
The Arizona Revised Statutes have been updated to include the revised sections from the 56th Legislature, 1st Regular Session.  Please note that the next update of this compilation will not take place until after the conclusion of the 56th Legislature, 2nd Regular Session, which convenes in January 2024.
This online version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is primarily maintained for legislative drafting purposes and reflects the version of law that is effective on January 1st of the year following the most recent legislative session.  The official version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is published by Thomson Reuters.
3-3437.Aversive or bittering agent in engine coolant and antifreeze; liability limitation; exceptions; violation; classification
A. Engine coolant or antifreeze that is sold in this state on or after January 1, 2008, that is manufactured on or after September 1, 2007 and that contains more than ten percent ethylene glycol shall include denatonium benzoate at a minimum of thirty parts per million and a maximum of fifty parts per million as an aversive or bittering agent in the product to render it unpalatable.  A manufacturer or packager of engine coolant or antifreeze that is subject to this section shall maintain a record of the trade name, scientific name and active ingredients of the aversive or bittering agent used pursuant to this section. A manufacturer or packager of engine coolant or antifreeze shall furnish information and documentation maintained pursuant to this section to a member of the public on request.
B. This section applies only to manufacturers, packagers, distributors, recyclers or sellers of engine coolant or antifreeze. For the purposes of this section, selling does not include the installation of engine coolant or antifreeze for compensation.
C. A manufacturer, packager, distributor, recycler or seller of engine coolant or antifreeze that is required to contain an aversive or bittering agent pursuant to this section is not liable to any person for personal injury, death, property damage, damage to the environment or natural resources or economic loss that results from the inclusion of denatonium benzoate in engine coolant or antifreeze.
D. The limitation on liability provided in subsection C of this section applies only if denatonium benzoate is included in engine coolant or antifreeze in the concentrations required by this section. The limitation on liability provided in subsection C of this section does not apply to a particular liability to the extent that the cause of that liability is unrelated to the inclusion of denatonium benzoate in engine coolant or antifreeze.
E. A political subdivision of this state shall not establish or continue in effect a prohibition, limitation, standard or other requirement relating to the inclusion of an aversive or bittering agent in engine coolant or antifreeze, with respect to retail containers containing less than fifty-five gallons of engine coolant or antifreeze, that is different from, or in addition to, this section.
F. This section does not apply to either:
1. The sale of a motor vehicle that contains engine coolant or antifreeze.
2. Wholesale containers of engine coolant or antifreeze containing fifty-five gallons or more of engine coolant or antifreeze.
G. The division may inspect, investigate, analyze and take appropriate actions to administer and enforce this section.
H. A person who violates this section is guilty of a class 3 misdemeanor.

© 2024 Arizona State Legislature. All Rights Reserved