Title: 3
Article: 3-3451

Content:
Arizona Legislature
The Arizona Revised Statutes have been updated to include the revised sections from the 56th Legislature, 1st Regular Session.  Please note that the next update of this compilation will not take place until after the conclusion of the 56th Legislature, 2nd Regular Session, which convenes in January 2024.
This online version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is primarily maintained for legislative drafting purposes and reflects the version of law that is effective on January 1st of the year following the most recent legislative session.  The official version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is published by Thomson Reuters.
3-3451.Licensing devices used for commercial purposes; authorization to test devices used for all other purposes; fees; certification; issuance of license; violation; classification
A. A person shall not use a commercial device unless the device is licensed or certified as provided in this chapter.
B. A license shall be obtained annually from the division on forms prescribed and furnished by the division. The fee prescribed in this chapter shall be submitted with the prescribed form.  A license shall be obtained not later than thirty days following the first day of commercial use for original installations.  If the ownership of a device that is licensed is transferred, the ownership of the license may be transferred. On transfer of a license, new licensees shall notify the division of the licensee's name and address and the location of the device.  A license for a device shall be posted at the licensed business location in a manner that provides the division with access to the license during normal business hours.  The division may issue or renew a device license for two or three years at the option of the applicant or licensee if the applicant or licensee pays the total amount of applicable annual fees in full at the time of issuance or renewal.
C. Any license issued under this chapter applies only to the instrument or device specified in the license, except that the associate director may allow the license to apply to a replacement for the original instrument or device.
D. Noncommercial devices may be tested by the division pursuant to this chapter. A weighing device owned by a person who uses it only for the purpose of weighing the person's own livestock or agricultural products and for no commercial purposes is declared to be a noncommercial device, and the owner of the device is exempt from paying any licensing fees collected pursuant to this chapter.
E. If a commercial livestock scale is used for thirty or more days in a calendar year, the scale is required to be licensed. If a commercial livestock scale is used for fewer than thirty days in a calendar year, the scale is required to be certified. If an owner or operator of a commercial livestock scale requests that the division certify the scale, the certification fee shall be comparable to the license fee prescribed in section 3-3452.  If an owner or operator of a noncommercial scale requests that the division certify the scale, the certification fee shall be comparable to the license fee prescribed in section 3-3452.
F. At the request of the owner or user of a portable batch plant, the division may certify the portable batch plant. If the division certifies a portable batch plant, the certification fee shall be comparable to the license fee prescribed in section 3-3452.
G. Any portable measuring device that is five gallons or less and that is properly marked by the manufacturer according to standards established by the national institute of standards and technology is exempt from the licensing and certification provisions of this chapter.
H. For the purpose of ascertaining compliance with the licensing provisions of this article, the department of revenue shall provide the division with a monthly report of all transaction privilege tax licenses issued in the prior month.  The report shall include the business name, type of business and business address of the licensee.
I. The department of revenue shall annually notify each transaction privilege tax licensee that the licensee is required to register new or existing weighing or measuring devices with the division.
J. A person or the person's agent who knowingly files with the division any notice, statement or other document required under this section that is false or that contains any material misstatement of fact is guilty of a class 2 misdemeanor.
© 2024 Arizona State Legislature. All Rights Reserved