Title: 3
Article: 3-3512

Content:
Arizona Legislature
The Arizona Revised Statutes have been updated to include the revised sections from the 56th Legislature, 1st Regular Session.  Please note that the next update of this compilation will not take place until after the conclusion of the 56th Legislature, 2nd Regular Session, which convenes in January 2024.
This online version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is primarily maintained for legislative drafting purposes and reflects the version of law that is effective on January 1st of the year following the most recent legislative session.  The official version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is published by Thomson Reuters.
3-3512.Stage I vapor recovery systems; stage II vapor recovery systems
A. A person shall not offer for sale, sell, install or use a new gasoline stage I vapor recovery system, or any new or rebuilt component parts of the system, unless the system or component part has been certified by the California air resources board as of March 31, 2001 or after that date, or has been approved by a third party that is accredited to test equipment and recognized by industry and the division, and has not been rejected by the division. The division shall maintain and keep current a list of stage I vapor recovery systems and component parts that are approved by the division. Only those systems that are approved shall be used in this state.  All certified vapor recovery components must be clearly identified by a permanent identification affixed by the certified manufacturer or rebuilder.
B. For gasoline dispensing sites with a throughput of over ten thousand gallons per month in area A or area B, a person shall not transfer or allow the transfer of gasoline into storage tanks at gasoline dispensing sites unless the storage tank is equipped with a stage I vapor recovery system consisting of a vapor-tight return line from the storage tank or its vent to the gasoline transport vehicle.
C. An owner or operator of a gasoline storage tank, gasoline transport vehicle or gasoline dispensing site that is subject to stage I vapor recovery requirements shall comply with the following:
1. Install all necessary stage I vapor recovery systems and make any modifications necessary to comply with the requirements.
2. Provide adequate training and written instructions to the operator of the affected gasoline dispensing site and the gasoline transport vehicle.
3. Replace, repair or modify any worn or ineffective component or design element to ensure the vapor-tight integrity and efficiency of the stage I vapor recovery systems.
4. Connect and ensure proper operation of the stage I vapor recovery systems whenever gasoline is being loaded, unloaded or dispensed.
5. In area A and other geographical areas as provided by subsection G of this section, have the stage I vapor recovery system tested annually by a registered service representative that is licensed by the division.
D. Before the initial installation or modification of any stage I vapor recovery system, the owner or operator of a gasoline storage tank, gasoline transport vehicle or gasoline dispensing site shall obtain a plan review and approval from the division. Application for the plan review and approval shall be on forms prescribed and provided by the division.
E. The division in consultation with the department of environmental quality and the office of the state fire marshal shall establish by rule standards for the installation and operation of stage I vapor recovery systems. The division shall establish by rule plan review and approval fees. In establishing those rules and standards, the associate director shall consider requirements in other states to ensure that only state-of-the-art technology is used.
F. Approval of a stage I vapor recovery system by the division does not relieve the owner or operator of the responsibility to comply with other applicable statutes, codes and rules pertaining to fire prevention, environmental quality and safety matters.
G. Any county, city or town outside of area A or area B may require gasoline dispensing sites with a throughput greater than ten thousand gallons per month to install, operate and maintain stage I vapor recovery systems in accordance with this section. Any county, city or town, including cities and towns within area B, also may require annual testing of required stage I vapor recovery systems pursuant to subsection C of this section. For a county, city or town considering the adoption of a resolution to require stage I vapor recovery systems or annual testing within its jurisdiction and on request, the department of environmental quality shall provide technical assistance in evaluating the air quality in that county, city or town and shall provide final review and approval of an adopted resolution.
H. A county board of supervisors or governing body of a city or town shall submit a resolution approved by the department of environmental quality to the associate director of the division requesting the imposition of the requirements for stage I vapor recovery systems within its jurisdiction.
I. The associate director shall adopt, by rule, compliance schedules for gasoline dispensing sites located within the jurisdiction requesting stage I vapor recovery system requirements no later than twelve months after receipt of the resolution from the county board of supervisors or governing board of a city or town. All gasoline dispensing sites shall be required to comply with stage I vapor recovery system rules within twenty-four months after the rules have been filed with the secretary of state.  Sites with stage I vapor recovery systems that are already installed must comply with the testing requirements at the time the rules become effective.
J. A county board of supervisors or governing body of a city or town that adopts the requirements for stage I vapor recovery systems may repeal those requirements by adopting a resolution to remove the imposition of those requirements within its jurisdiction unless the county, city or town is in an ozone nonattainment area that has since been designated as moderate, serious or severe by the United States environmental protection agency under section 107(d) of the clean air act. On receipt of the resolution, the associate director of the division shall consult with the director of the department of environmental quality to verify that a county, city or town is outside of an ozone nonattainment area designated as moderate, serious or severe by the United States environmental protection agency under section 107(d) of the clean air act. After consultation with the department of environmental quality, the associate director of the division shall revise the rules to repeal the requirements for stage I vapor recovery systems within that jurisdiction as soon as practicable.
K. From and after September 30, 2018, stage II vapor recovery systems that collect vapors during vehicle refueling are prohibited in an ozone nonattainment area designated as moderate, serious, severe or extreme by the United States environmental protection agency under section 107(d) of the clean air act or area A.
© 2024 Arizona State Legislature. All Rights Reserved