Title: 3
Article: 3-351

Content:
Arizona Legislature
The Arizona Revised Statutes have been updated to include the revised sections from the 56th Legislature, 1st Regular Session.  Please note that the next update of this compilation will not take place until after the conclusion of the 56th Legislature, 2nd Regular Session, which convenes in January 2024.
This online version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is primarily maintained for legislative drafting purposes and reflects the version of law that is effective on January 1st of the year following the most recent legislative session.  The official version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is published by Thomson Reuters.
3-351.Registration; fee; confidential information
A. Every pesticide that is distributed shall be registered with the division.  The director may provide by rule for registrations having a term of one or more years and may prescribe the date on which registrations expire.
B. The registrant shall file with the division a statement including:
1. The name and address of the registrant and the name and address of the person whose name will appear on the label, if other than the registrant.
2. The name of the pesticide.
3. A complete copy of the labeling accompanying the pesticide and a statement of all claims to be made for it including directions for use.  If the registrant distributes labels in a language in addition to English, the registrant shall provide a copy of both labels with a signed statement that the label directions have the same meaning and provide the same use directions as on the written English label.
4. If requested by the division, a full description of the tests made and the results of those tests on which the claims are based.
C. For a renewal of registration:
1. A statement shall be required only with respect to information that is different from that furnished when the pesticide was registered or last reregistered.
2. If requested by the director, a complete copy of labeling shall be submitted.
D. Any person desiring to register under this article shall pay to the division a registration fee of one hundred dollars per year for each pesticide. The monies collected from registration fees shall be allocated as follows:
1. Twenty-five dollars for each year of the registration term shall be allocated pursuant to section 3-350.
2. Seventy-five dollars for each year of the registration term shall be deposited in the water quality assurance revolving fund established by section 49-282.
E. All federal, state and county offices shall register without fee all pesticides sold at cost by them.
F. If the director deems it necessary in the administration of this article, the director may require the submission of the complete formula of any pesticide or the confidential statement of formula and the analytical methods for the analysis of the active ingredients in the formulation. For any product having a federal registration, the director may request, on reasonable cause, the analytical methods for the analysis of residues of the active ingredients of the pesticide in environmental media provided that this information has been developed by the applicant and submitted to the United States environmental protection agency. Information provided by the applicant pursuant to this section shall be afforded applicable trade secret and confidentiality protections.  Other products exempted from federal registration requirements and required to be registered under this section shall be subject to this subsection.
G. If it appears to the director that the composition of the article is such as to warrant the proposed claims for it and if the article and its labeling and other material required to be submitted comply with the requirements of section 3-352, the division shall register the article. If the director finds that the pesticide does not warrant the proposed claims, the director may request a full description of the tests conducted and the results of the tests on which the claims are based. If the pesticide or its labeling and other material that are required to be submitted do not comply with this article, the director shall notify the applicant of the manner in which the pesticide, labeling or other material fails to comply with the law to afford the applicant an opportunity to make the necessary corrections. If the applicant does not make the corrections and cannot support the claim on the label, the director may refuse to register the pesticide.
H. In submitting data required by this article, the applicant shall clearly mark any portions that are trade secrets or commercial or financial information. The applicant shall identify as confidential information any such marked material and submit it separately from other material required to be submitted under this article. The information shall be kept confidential by the department unless written permission to release the information is granted by the registrant or on order of a court of jurisdiction.
I. In order to protect the public, the associate director, after a hearing, may cancel the registration of a pesticide. The associate director shall cancel the registration of a pesticide on notification by the director of environmental quality pursuant to section 49-306 or 49-309.
J. Notwithstanding any other provision of this article, registration is not required in the case of a pesticide shipped from one plant within the state to another plant within the state operated by the same person.
K. A registrant who discontinues distribution of a pesticide shall continue its registration in this state for three years after the discontinuation to allow the remaining product to move through the channels of trade.  The registrant shall notify the appropriate entities within the channels of trade of the effective date of the discontinuation.

© 2024 Arizona State Legislature. All Rights Reserved