Title: 3
Article: 3-3611

Content:
Arizona Legislature
The Arizona Revised Statutes have been updated to include the revised sections from the 56th Legislature, 1st Regular Session.  Please note that the next update of this compilation will not take place until after the conclusion of the 56th Legislature, 2nd Regular Session, which convenes in January 2024.
This online version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is primarily maintained for legislative drafting purposes and reflects the version of law that is effective on January 1st of the year following the most recent legislative session.  The official version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is published by Thomson Reuters.
3-3611.License and registration exemptions
A. The provisions of this chapter requiring licensure and registration do not apply to:
1. Persons applying nonrestricted use pesticides on residential property that they own and occupy or that they own and that is not occupied.
2. Authorized representatives of any educational institution engaged in research in the study of pest management or a state agency engaged in research or the study of pest management.
3. Persons using a nonrestricted, ready-to-use disinfectant, sanitizer or deodorizer.
4. A utility and the utility's employees if pest management services are needed for an employee's health and safety in order for the employee to continue performing work tasks.
5. Persons using an over-the-counter antimicrobial to treat a swimming pool.
6. Persons using a device that is exempt pursuant to section 3-3603, subsection B, paragraph  17.
7. Persons who are exempt pursuant to section 3-3612 or 3-3613.
B. An individual is not required to have a separate business license to engage in the business of pest management on behalf of a business licensee or as an employee of a political subdivision.
C. The director by rule may exempt from sections 3-3615 and 3-3616 a certified applicator who performs inspections but does not make recommendations, estimates, bids or contracts for treatment or use pesticides or devices for pest management and may prescribe alternative requirements and conditions.

© 2024 Arizona State Legislature. All Rights Reserved