Title: 3
Article: 3-365

Content:
Arizona Legislature
The Arizona Revised Statutes have been updated to include the revised sections from the 56th Legislature, 1st Regular Session.  Please note that the next update of this compilation will not take place until after the conclusion of the 56th Legislature, 2nd Regular Session, which convenes in January 2024.
This online version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is primarily maintained for legislative drafting purposes and reflects the version of law that is effective on January 1st of the year following the most recent legislative session.  The official version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is published by Thomson Reuters.
3-365.Buffer zones
A. The odoriferous pesticides profenofos, sulprofos, def and merphos and other pesticides with similar odoriferous characteristics shall not be applied within one-fourth mile of a school, child care facility, a health care institution that meets the requirements of section 36-421, subsection D, a child care group home as defined by section 36-897 or at least twenty-five residences adjoining the field to be sprayed, except by soil injection.
B. Highly toxic pesticides or paraquat shall not be applied within four hundred feet of a health care institution that meets the requirements of section 36-421, subsection D, except by soil injection.
C. Highly toxic pesticides or paraquat shall not be applied in liquid form, except by soil injection, within one hundred feet by aircraft or within fifty feet by ground equipment of at least twenty-five residences adjoining the field to be sprayed. Highly toxic pesticides shall not be applied in dust form by aircraft within three hundred feet of at least twenty-five residences adjoining the field to be sprayed.
D. Highly toxic pesticides and paraquat may be applied within one-fourth mile of schools, child care group homes, and child care facilities only if authorized activities at the school, child care group home or child care facility are not scheduled to occur before the reentry time period assigned to the pesticide by provisions of the product label elapses. A responsible individual at a school, a child care group home or a child care facility shall be notified of the application of pesticides, other than highly toxic pesticides or paraquat, by aircraft during daylight hours.
E. Nothing in this section permits the application of pesticide in such a way as to cause drift within the grounds of a residence, school, health care institution, child care group home, or child care facility, but compliance with this section and the requirements of the pesticide label establishes a presumption of compliance with this subsection.
F. For the purposes of this section, distances shall be measured from the property boundary of a school, residence, child care facility, child care group home, or health care institution closest to the field to be sprayed to the area of the field that is to be sprayed.

© 2024 Arizona State Legislature. All Rights Reserved