Title: 3
Article: 3-3621

Content:
Arizona Legislature
The Arizona Revised Statutes have been updated to include the revised sections from the 56th Legislature, 1st Regular Session.  Please note that the next update of this compilation will not take place until after the conclusion of the 56th Legislature, 2nd Regular Session, which convenes in January 2024.
This online version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is primarily maintained for legislative drafting purposes and reflects the version of law that is effective on January 1st of the year following the most recent legislative session.  The official version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is published by Thomson Reuters.
3-3621.Disciplinary action; grounds; procedure
A. If the director finds that a person has violated this chapter, a rule adopted pursuant to this chapter or a written order of the director, the director may issue a notice of violation and a cease and desist order to the person and, after an opportunity for a hearing, take any of the following disciplinary actions, in combination or alternatively:
1. Revoke a license or registration.
2. Suspend a license or registration.
3. Refuse to renew a license or registration.
4. Impose probation requirements that require a person to comply with one or more specific provisions of this chapter or rules adopted pursuant to this chapter and that require reporting by or monitoring of the person.
5. Impose a civil penalty in an amount of not more than one thousand dollars for each violation except for grounds prescribed in section  3-3624, subsection B, paragraphs 8 and 9.
6. Require a qualifying party to report to the director the qualifying party's role in the management of a business license.
7. Require an individual to take supplemental continuing education within a time period set by the director.
B. Instead of taking disciplinary action for a violation pursuant to subsection A of this section, the director may issue an administrative warning.
C. Except as provided in section 41-1092.11, the director may take disciplinary action against a business licensee pursuant to subsection A of this section only if any of the following applies:
1. The business licensee has committed a prior violation of the same type, including any violation by any applicator of the business licensee.
2. The business licensee failed to follow a written order of the director directing it to correct a deficiency or problem within the time specified.
3. The business licensee has knowingly assumed operations for a business licensee whose license has been revoked and during the first three years after revocation allows the former licensee to play an active role in company policy, decisions, sales or supervision of applicators.
4. The business licensee is convicted of a felony.
5. The business licensee is determined by the director to have committed a violation in connection with a pretreatment, new-construction treatment or final grade treatment.
6. The business licensee uses applicators to provide pest management services that are not registered pursuant to the requirements established under section  3-3603, subsection B, paragraph  19.
7. The business licensee fails to provide written notice immediately following a pest management treatment in or around residential structures of four or fewer units to the person requesting the treatment or to the person's designated agent.  The notice shall include the specific pesticide by trade name used in the treatment.
8. The business licensee performing pest management treatments on an ongoing basis to locations other than residential structures of four or fewer units fails to provide written notice to the person who requested the treatments or the person's designated agent.  Notice shall be given before the first application of the pesticide and when new or additional pesticides are used or immediately after each treatment.
9. If the treatments are performed in the interior of residential units, the licensee fails to leave a notice in the interior of each treated unit immediately after each treatment. The notice shall include the pesticide by trade name and any other information as required by the pesticide label or local ordinance.
10. A statement of precaution does not accompany each notification of treatment required in paragraphs 7, 8 and 9 of this subsection. Each statement of precaution shall be printed conspicuously, in not less than eight-point type, and shall include the words:
Warning--pesticides can be harmful.  Keep children and pets away from pesticide applications until dry, dissipated or aerated. For more information contact [business license name and business license number] at [telephone number].
11. The business licensee fails within thirty calendar days after completion of a pretreatment, a new-construction treatment, a final grade treatment, an initial corrective treatment project or a wood-destroying insect inspection report to file with the division, in a form approved by the director, the termite action report form and prescribed fee.
12. The business licensee, within twelve months after completion of a termite pretreatment or new-construction treatment, fails either to file a supplemental termite action report in a form provided by the director that indicates the completion of the final grade treatment or to report in writing why the treatment has not been completed and when it will be completed.
13. The business licensee's applicator applies a pesticide that causes harm to the public, the environment or a nontarget animal.
14. The business licensee fails within thirty calendar days to pay civil penalties imposed under this chapter or rules adopted pursuant to this chapter.
15. The business licensee engages in the business of pest management while the business license is suspended.
D. The director shall commence an inquiry only within five years after the date of the alleged act or omission.
E. The director may issue an advisory notice stating de minimis violations of statutes or rules that carry no penalty, unless the person subject to this chapter wilfully and repeatedly violates the statute or rule. For wilful and repeated violations, the director may take disciplinary action against the person for a violation.
F. The license of a person who does not renew the license and who has been advised in writing that an investigation or complaint is pending at the time the license is due to expire or terminate does not expire or terminate until the investigation or complaint is resolved.  The license is suspended on the date it would otherwise expire or terminate until the person renews the license or the investigation or complaint is resolved.
G. The director may summarily suspend a person's license while there is a pending criminal charge against the person for a felony or a misdemeanor involving moral turpitude.
© 2024 Arizona State Legislature. All Rights Reserved