Title: 3
Article: 3-3604

Content:
Arizona Legislature
The Arizona Revised Statutes have been updated to include the revised sections from the 56th Legislature, 1st Regular Session.  Please note that the next update of this compilation will not take place until after the conclusion of the 56th Legislature, 2nd Regular Session, which convenes in January 2024.
This online version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is primarily maintained for legislative drafting purposes and reflects the version of law that is effective on January 1st of the year following the most recent legislative session.  The official version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is published by Thomson Reuters.
3-3604.Pest management trust fund
A. The pest management trust fund is established for the exclusive purpose of implementing, continuing and supporting the division and its objectives as established by this chapter.
B. The director shall administer the trust fund as trustee.  The state treasurer shall accept, separately account for and hold in trust any monies deposited in the state treasury, which are considered to be trust monies as defined in section 35-310 and which shall not be commingled with any other monies in the state treasury except for investment purposes.  On notice from the director, the state treasurer shall invest and divest any trust fund monies deposited in the state treasury as provided by sections 35-313 and 35-314.03, and monies earned from the investment shall be credited to the trust fund.
C. The beneficiaries of the trust are the division programs established by this chapter.  Monies in the trust fund shall be disbursed as approved by the director exclusively for the purposes prescribed in this chapter.
D. Surplus monies, including any unexpended and unencumbered balance at the end of the fiscal year, do not revert to the state general fund.
E. If the division is terminated, any monies in the trust fund shall be expended to meet existing legal obligations of the division.  The director shall expend any remaining monies on any program consistent with this chapter.

© 2024 Arizona State Legislature. All Rights Reserved