Title: 3
Article: 3-3601

Content:
Arizona Legislature
The Arizona Revised Statutes have been updated to include the revised sections from the 56th Legislature, 1st Regular Session.  Please note that the next update of this compilation will not take place until after the conclusion of the 56th Legislature, 2nd Regular Session, which convenes in January 2024.
This online version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is primarily maintained for legislative drafting purposes and reflects the version of law that is effective on January 1st of the year following the most recent legislative session.  The official version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is published by Thomson Reuters.
3-3601.Definitions
In this chapter, unless the context otherwise requires:
1. "Branch office" means any fixed place of business, other than the primary office, where records are kept, mail is received, statements are rendered, money is collected, requests for service or bids are received, information pertaining to the business of pest management is given or pesticides are stored or disposed of.
2. "Branch supervisor" means a certified applicator working at or from a branch office who is responsible for ensuring the training, equipping and supervision of all applicators of the branch office.
3. "Business license" means a license that is issued pursuant to this chapter or rules adopted pursuant to this chapter to a person and that entitles that person and the person's employees to engage in the business of pest management.
4. "Business of pest management" means engaging in, offering to engage in, advertising for, soliciting or performing pest management, including any of the following:
(a) Identifying infestations or making inspections for the purpose of identifying or attempting to identify infestations.
(b) Making written or oral inspection reports, recommendations, estimates or bids with respect to infestations.
(c) The application of pesticides or the making of contracts or submitting of bids for the application of pesticides or the use of devices for the purpose of eliminating, exterminating, controlling or preventing infestations.
5. "Certified applicator" means an individual who is licensed by the division to provide pest management services in accordance with this chapter.
6. "Certified qualified applicator" means a certified applicator who is eligible to act as a qualifying party.
7. "Child care facility" means a facility that is regulated pursuant to title 36, chapter 7.1.
8. "De minimis violation" means a violation that, although undesirable, has no direct or immediate relationship to safety, health or property damage.
9. "Device" means any instrument or contrivance that is intended to be used for trapping, destroying, repelling or mitigating any pest or other form of plant or animal life.
10. "Direct supervision" means the use of a pesticide under the instructions, control and responsibility of a certified applicator who is available if needed for consultation or assistance even though the certified applicator is not physically present at the time and place the pesticide is used.
11. "Division" means the pest management division of the department.
12. "Final grade treatment" means the establishment of a complete vertical barrier at the exterior of foundation walls in stem wall or monolithic construction.
13. "Financial security" means liability insurance, a deposit of cash or certified monies, a surety bond or an irrevocable and unconditional letter of credit from a federally chartered financial institution or a financial institution as defined in section 6-101.
14. "Household pests" means pests, other than wood-destroying organisms, that invade households or other structures, including rodents, vermin and insects.
15. "Immediate supervision" means the use of a pesticide by an individual acting under the instructions, control and responsibility of a certified applicator who is within the direct line of sight or within hearing distance of the individual and who is available for consultation or assistance at the time and place the pesticide is used.
16. "Initial corrective treatment" means the first postconstruction treatment of any kind performed by a licensee, excluding a treatment performed under warranty by a licensee who has performed the pretreatment or new-construction treatment.
17. "Inquiry" means an initial investigation of possible violations of this chapter or rules adopted pursuant to this chapter based on information received from the public or division staff.
18. "Integrated pest management" means a sustainable approach to managing pests that combines biological, cultural, physical and chemical tools in a way that minimizes economic, health and environmental risks.
19. "New-construction treatment" means a treatment that protects all cellulose components of a structure from subterranean termites and that is performed after a permanent concrete slab foundation is installed or footings and supports for a raised foundation are installed, but before the structure or a final grade treatment is completed.
20. "Other structures" includes railroad cars, boats, docks, motor vehicles or airplanes and their contents.
21. "Pest management":
(a) Means the management of health-related pests, aquatic pests, household pests, wood-destroying organisms or other pests, including weeds, that exist in, near or around structures, in ornamental shrubs and trees, along rights-of-way or in lawns or cemeteries and all pesticide applications that could be harmful to public health or the environment.
(b) Includes the management by persons for hire of health-related pests, aquatic pests, household pests, wood-destroying organisms or other pests, including weeds, that exist on golf courses.
(c) Does not include pesticide applications used directly in the commercial production of crops and animals or used not for hire on golf courses.
22. "Pest management services" means identifying infestations or making inspections for the purpose of identifying or attempting to identify infestations, making written or oral inspection reports or recommendations with respect to infestations and the application of pesticides or the use of devices not exempt by section  3-3603, subsection B, paragraph  17 for the purpose of eliminating, exterminating, controlling or preventing infestations.
23. "Pesticide" means any substance or mixture of substances intended to be used for preventing, destroying, repelling or mitigating insects, fungi, bacteria, microbes, weeds, rodents, predatory animals or any form of plant or animal life that is, or that the director may declare to be, a pest and that may infest or be detrimental to vegetation, humans, animals or households or be present in any environment.
24. "Political subdivision" means a state agency, county, city, town, municipal corporation or school district or a special district formed pursuant to title 48.
25. "Postconstruction treatment" means a treatment to control wood-destroying organisms in or around an existing structure performed after all soil disturbance associated with construction is complete and after an applicator has completed an inspection of the structure and a treatment proposal under section  3-3632, subsections A and B.
26. "Pretreatment" means a termite treatment that protects all cellulose components of a structure from subterranean termites, that is performed before a permanent concrete slab foundation is installed or in conjunction with establishing footings and supports for a raised foundation and that establishes thorough and complete horizontal and vertical treated barriers.
27. "Prior violation" means any violation for which disciplinary action was taken within a five-year period before the date of the violation for which current disciplinary action is sought.
28. "Qualifying party" means a certified qualified applicator registered with the division as the individual responsible for ensuring the training, equipping and supervision of all applicators of a business licensee or school district.
29. "School" means any public or nonpublic institution, other than a child's home, that is established for the purpose of offering instruction to pupils in programs for preschool children with disabilities, kindergarten programs or any combination of grades one through twelve and that qualifies as a school pursuant to section 15-802.
30. "Service vehicle" means a motor vehicle, including a trailer attached to the motor vehicle, that is used to transport equipment or pesticides for the business of pest management.
31. "Sterilant" means a product that is designed for killing all live vegetation and preventing all vegetation growth for twelve or more months.
32. "Weed" means any plant that grows where it is not wanted.
33. "Wood-destroying insect inspection report" means a written inspection report on a form approved by the director that is prepared in connection with the sale or refinancing of real property whether or not the report is used as part of the transaction.
34. "Wood-destroying organisms" means organisms that attack, damage or destroy wood or wood-derivative products, but does not include birds or mammals.

© 2024 Arizona State Legislature. All Rights Reserved