Title: 3
Article: 3-3633

Content:
Arizona Legislature
The Arizona Revised Statutes have been updated to include the revised sections from the 56th Legislature, 1st Regular Session.  Please note that the next update of this compilation will not take place until after the conclusion of the 56th Legislature, 2nd Regular Session, which convenes in January 2024.
This online version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is primarily maintained for legislative drafting purposes and reflects the version of law that is effective on January 1st of the year following the most recent legislative session.  The official version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is published by Thomson Reuters.
3-3633.Wood-destroying insect inspection reports
A. Wood-destroying insect inspection reports may be completed only by an applicator who is certified in the category of wood-destroying organism management and who has received at least five hours of instruction from an in-house education program of the business licensee on the subject of wood-destroying insect inspection reports. An examination on the instruction is not required.  The business licensee shall keep a record of completion of the training and shall make the record available on the director's request.  The instruction requirement does not apply to certified qualified applicators.
B. Wood-destroying insect inspection reports shall be on file in the office of the business licensee within seven calendar days after the completion of an inspection. The business licensee shall retain a copy of all completed wood-destroying insect inspection reports for three years and make the reports available on the director's request.
C. Wood-destroying insect inspection reports are evidence of both the existence or absence of wood-destroying insects and conditions conducive to wood-destroying insects that were visible and accessible to an inspector at the time the inspection was made. A business licensee remains responsible for the accuracy of the inspection and the report as evidence of the presence or absence of infestation and conditions conducive to infestation on the date of inspection, except that a wood-destroying insect inspection report shall not be construed as a guarantee as to the presence or absence of wood-destroying insects and conditions conducive to wood-destroying insects in a structure after the date of inspection.
D. If a certified applicator is exempt from the business license requirement with respect to wood-destroying insect inspections pursuant to rules established by the director, the certified applicator shall fulfill the responsibilities placed on business licensees in this section.
E. A person shall not complete a wood-destroying insect inspection report for a property that the person owns or occupies.

© 2024 Arizona State Legislature. All Rights Reserved