Title: 3
Article: 3-3615

Content:
Arizona Legislature
The Arizona Revised Statutes have been updated to include the revised sections from the 56th Legislature, 1st Regular Session.  Please note that the next update of this compilation will not take place until after the conclusion of the 56th Legislature, 2nd Regular Session, which convenes in January 2024.
This online version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is primarily maintained for legislative drafting purposes and reflects the version of law that is effective on January 1st of the year following the most recent legislative session.  The official version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is published by Thomson Reuters.
3-3615.Business license; financial security
A. A person who engages in the business of pest management shall obtain a valid business license from the division.  A person who is not exempt under this chapter and who advertises for, solicits or claims to be willing to engage in the business of pest management is presumed to be engaging in the business of pest management.
B. An application for an original or a renewal business license shall:
1. Be in a form and include the information prescribed by the director.
2. Be accompanied by the prescribed fee.
3. Include the following proof of financial security:
(a) Either a deposit of money, liability insurance, self-insured retention, a surety bond or a certified check protecting persons who may suffer bodily injury or property damage as a result of the operations of the applicant. The director shall not accept a bond or a liability insurance policy unless it is issued by an insurer that holds a valid certificate of authority or that is permitted to transact surplus lines insurance in this state.  The amount of the deposit, insurance, self-insured retention or bond shall be at least five hundred thousand dollars and shall be maintained at not less than that amount at all times during the licensing period. The license of a business licensee whose financial security falls below the minimum five hundred thousand dollars shall be suspended by the director and shall remain suspended until the security meets the minimum financial security requirement. The financial security need only cover those particular operations in which the licensee is engaged at any time.  If the financial security is in the form of liability insurance or a surety bond, the licensee shall furnish the director with a certificate of coverage that indicates the coverages and endorsements required by this subsection on a form prescribed by the director.
(b) Either of the following if the business licensee performs termite treatments:
(i) Proof of a surety bond in the amount of one hundred thousand dollars per business license for actual damages, including reasonable costs of collection suffered by persons as a result of termite damage due to negligent treatment.
(ii) Proof of a liability insurance policy rider in the amount of one hundred thousand dollars per business license that covers termite damage due to negligent treatment.
(c) If the business licensee provides wood-destroying insect inspection reports, proof of a surety bond or a liability insurance policy rider in the amount of one hundred thousand dollars per business license for actual damages plus reasonable costs of collection suffered by persons as a result of errors and omissions contained in the reports.
C. If an insurance policy provides for a deductible, the deductible amount shall not exceed one percent of the total financial security for each occurrence.  If the deductible amount is in excess of one percent of the total financial security for each occurrence, the business licensee shall provide other security as provided in this section or other evidence of financial security for the excess deductible amount.
D. If the financial security is in the form of liability insurance, a licensee shall maintain a coverage endorsement for pesticides and herbicides, fumigation, care, custody and control, rights-of-way, wood-destroying insect inspection report errors and omissions and pollution transit for its applicable license categories.
E. If the proof of financial security on file with the division expires, the business license is automatically suspended until a current certificate of insurance or proof of financial responsibility is furnished to the director.

© 2024 Arizona State Legislature. All Rights Reserved