Title: 3
Article: 3-3606

Content:
Arizona Legislature
The Arizona Revised Statutes have been updated to include the revised sections from the 56th Legislature, 1st Regular Session.  Please note that the next update of this compilation will not take place until after the conclusion of the 56th Legislature, 2nd Regular Session, which convenes in January 2024.
This online version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is primarily maintained for legislative drafting purposes and reflects the version of law that is effective on January 1st of the year following the most recent legislative session.  The official version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is published by Thomson Reuters.
3-3606.Pesticide applications at schools and child care facilities; advance notification; exemptions
A. Only a certified applicator may apply pesticides at a school or child care facility.
B. A business licensee or certified applicator shall notify a school or a child care facility at least seventy-two hours in advance of any pesticide application in order to permit the school to comply with section 15-152 and the child care facility to comply with section 36-898. The seventy-two-hour advance notice shall include:
1. The scheduled date and time the application is to occur.
2. The location and area of the application and the brand name of the pesticide or pesticides to be applied.
3. The name, address, phone number and contact person of the business licensee or certified applicator.
4. A statement that further information, the product label or the safety data sheet is available by contacting the business licensee or certified applicator.
C. The following pesticide applications are exempt from the notification requirement prescribed by subsection B of this section:
1. Nonresidual pesticide applications performed or contracted by public health agencies for adult vector control, provided that oral notification is attempted at least seventy-two hours before the application, when possible, to the school office or child care facility office with a statement of the pest problem, treatment procedure, area to be treated and approximate time of the application.
2. Emergency applications of a pesticide that has a toxicity category of III or IV pursuant to 40 Code of Federal Regulations section 156.62 to control harmful pests that pose an immediate threat to the public health. Under the circumstances described in this paragraph or paragraph 1 of this subsection, the business licensee or certified applicator shall do all of the following:
(a) Notify the school office or child care facility office before the application with a statement of the pest problem, treatment procedure, area to be treated and approximate time of application.
(b) Immediately after the application has been completed, notify the school office or the child care facility office of the name of the pesticide applied, the formulation, the strength and dosage and the date and time of application and provide the pesticide label.
(c) Post the treated area immediately after the application. The posting shall be at least eight and one-half inches by eleven inches and shall include the name of the pesticide, the registration number issued by the United States environmental protection agency, the date and time of application and the name and telephone number of the business licensee and certified applicator.  A copy of the posting shall also be placed at the main entrance to the school or child care facility.  The posting and the copy of the posting shall remain in place for at least forty-eight hours after the application.
3. Disinfectants or swimming pool chemicals.
4. Block, gel or paste-type bait that is a toxicity category III or IV formulation of insecticide pursuant to 40 Code of Federal Regulations section 156.62 and that is either of the following:
(a) Secured in an enclosed, tamper-resistant bait station and placed in an area that is inaccessible to children.
(b) Applied to a crack or crevice that is inaccessible to children.
5. Block-type bait that is a toxicity level III or IV formulation of rodenticide pursuant to 40 Code of Federal Regulations section 156.62 and that is secured in an enclosed, tamper-resistant bait station placed in an area that is inaccessible to children.
6. Personal repellants.
7. Nonrestricted use sanitizers and deodorizers.

© 2024 Arizona State Legislature. All Rights Reserved