Title: 3
Article: 3-363

Content:
Arizona Legislature
The Arizona Revised Statutes have been updated to include the revised sections from the 56th Legislature, 1st Regular Session.  Please note that the next update of this compilation will not take place until after the conclusion of the 56th Legislature, 2nd Regular Session, which convenes in January 2024.
This online version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is primarily maintained for legislative drafting purposes and reflects the version of law that is effective on January 1st of the year following the most recent legislative session.  The official version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is published by Thomson Reuters.
3-363.Rules
The director shall adopt rules to regulate pesticides that include provisions to:
1. Administer and implement this article.
2. Prescribe measures to control, monitor, inspect and govern pesticide use.
3. Prohibit or restrict pesticide use.
4. Restrict the areas in which pesticide use may occur.
5. Prescribe minimum qualifications for all persons who engage in pesticide use, including, as appropriate, requirements that the persons have valid licenses, permits or certificates, have adequate training, including continuing education requirements, and meet financial responsibility standards.
6. Prescribe appropriate recordkeeping and reporting requirements regarding pesticide use, except that the recordkeeping and reporting requirements for growers and certified private applicators who apply pesticides shall be equivalent to, but not more stringent than, the requirements prescribed under the federal insecticide, fungicide and rodenticide act (61 Stat. 163) and the food, agriculture, conservation and trade act of 1990 (P.L. 101-624; 104 Stat. 3359).
7. Prohibit pesticide use that is inconsistent with the pesticide label as required under the federal insecticide, fungicide and rodenticide act (61 Stat. 163).
8. Exempt from regulation under this article pesticide use that is regulated in chapter  20 of this title.
9. Issue licenses, permits and certificates for pesticide use, as appropriate, having terms of one or more years.
10. Charge and collect the following fees for each permit, license and certification under this article:
(a) Not more than twenty dollars per year for a grower permit.
(b) Not more than one hundred dollars per year for a seller permit.
(c) Not more than one hundred dollars per year for a custom applicator license.
(d) Not more than fifty dollars per year for a pilot license.
(e) Not more than fifty dollars per year for a pest control advisor license.
(f) Not more than twenty-five dollars per year for a piece of equipment used to apply pesticides by a custom applicator.
(g) Not more than fifty dollars per year for restricted use certification.
(h) Not more than the amount set by the director by rule for a license or certificate for pesticide use on golf courses.
11. Establish a nonexclusive list of acts and omissions that constitute serious, nonserious and de minimis violations of this article.
12. Establish a system of administrative penalties and fines for violations of this article and any rules adopted under this article.  Under this system:
(a) Violators shall be assessed a number of points for each violation, depending on such factors as:
(i) Potential and actual consequences of the violation on public and worker health and safety and the environment.
(ii) The wrongfulness of the conduct.
(iii) The degree of culpability of the violator.
(iv) The duration of the violation.
(v) Prior violations or citations.
(b) Penalties shall be assessed depending on the number of points accrued by the violator.

© 2024 Arizona State Legislature. All Rights Reserved