Title: 3
Article: 3-3631

Content:
Arizona Legislature
The Arizona Revised Statutes have been updated to include the revised sections from the 56th Legislature, 1st Regular Session.  Please note that the next update of this compilation will not take place until after the conclusion of the 56th Legislature, 2nd Regular Session, which convenes in January 2024.
This online version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is primarily maintained for legislative drafting purposes and reflects the version of law that is effective on January 1st of the year following the most recent legislative session.  The official version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is published by Thomson Reuters.
3-3631.Termite action report form; exemption
A. Within thirty calendar days after completion of a pretreatment, a new-construction treatment, a final grade treatment, an initial corrective treatment or a wood-destroying insect inspection report, a business licensee or certified applicator shall file with the division in a form approved by the director a termite action report form and the prescribed fee.  A termite action report is required for termite action only and does not include all wood-destroying organisms.
B. The termite action report form shall include:
1. The address or location of the work or project.
2. The type and date of the work.
3. The name of the business licensee.
4. Any other information required by rule.
C. The director may:
1. Adjust the fee upward or downward to a level that is calculated to produce sufficient revenue to carry out the functions of wood-destroying organism regulation.
2. Establish tiered fees according to the means of submission to encourage electronic submission of the termite action report form.
3. Assess a penalty of not more than one hundred dollars per form for failing to submit the required form or fee, or both, within thirty calendar days.
D. If the business licensee who performs an initial corrective treatment performed the pretreatment or new-construction treatment at the same site and filed a termite action report form with the division documenting the pretreatment or new-construction treatment, the business licensee is exempt from this section with respect to the initial corrective treatment.

© 2024 Arizona State Legislature. All Rights Reserved