Title: 3
Article: 3-364

Content:
Arizona Legislature
The Arizona Revised Statutes have been updated to include the revised sections from the 56th Legislature, 1st Regular Session.  Please note that the next update of this compilation will not take place until after the conclusion of the 56th Legislature, 2nd Regular Session, which convenes in January 2024.
This online version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is primarily maintained for legislative drafting purposes and reflects the version of law that is effective on January 1st of the year following the most recent legislative session.  The official version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is published by Thomson Reuters.
3-364.Inspection powers; notice
A. The director may enter at reasonable times into or on or through any public or private property for the purpose of ascertaining compliance or noncompliance with any rules or orders adopted or issued under this article. If practicable, and if notice will not inhibit the director's ability to enforce this article, the director or the director's agent shall notify the owner, operator or lessee of the property when entering on the property.
B. Within five days after the inspection the director shall inform any alleged violator in writing if the director anticipates an enforcement action. The notice of a potential enforcement action shall indicate the nature of the alleged violation and the last possible date for issuing a citation under section 3-368, subsection F.  If in the course of an investigation the department identifies any additional alleged violator, the director shall inform the additional alleged violator within five days of initiating the new investigation. The notice of a potential enforcement action against the additional alleged violator shall indicate the nature of the alleged violation and the last possible date for issuing a citation or notice of de minimis violation under section 3-368, subsection F.  If the director does not issue a notice of a potential enforcement action, the director shall inform the alleged violator within fifteen days after the inspection that the director does not anticipate any enforcement action.

© 2024 Arizona State Legislature. All Rights Reserved