Title: 3
Article: 3-368

Content:
Arizona Legislature
The Arizona Revised Statutes have been updated to include the revised sections from the 56th Legislature, 1st Regular Session.  Please note that the next update of this compilation will not take place until after the conclusion of the 56th Legislature, 2nd Regular Session, which convenes in January 2024.
This online version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is primarily maintained for legislative drafting purposes and reflects the version of law that is effective on January 1st of the year following the most recent legislative session.  The official version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is published by Thomson Reuters.
3-368.Enforcement; consultation with attorney general; citations and notices of violation
A. The director is responsible for enforcing this article and shall receive and shall promptly and efficiently process all complaints regarding pesticide use.  The director shall furnish to the attorney general a copy of each complaint filed under this article and copies of all investigative reports, citations, hearing notices and other action or pending action documents.  Before a final disposition of a pesticide complaint the director and the attorney general shall jointly review the case to ensure that proper action is taken and to determine whether additional action or prosecution is required.
B. The director shall notify all persons who submit complaints alleging violations of this article or rules adopted pursuant to this article of the progress, status and disposition of their complaints.
C. If the director investigates an alleged violation under this article and rules adopted pursuant to this article and determines that the violation did not result in any adverse health effects or property damage, the director may issue a letter of warning.  A letter of warning issued pursuant to this subsection is not subject to section 3-363, paragraph 12.
D. If the director following an inspection or investigation determines that a de minimis violation occurred, the director shall issue a notice of de minimis violation and maintain a record of the violation for three years.  A person receiving a notice of de minimis violation may request a hearing pursuant to title 41, chapter 6, article 10.
E. If the director following an inspection or investigation determines that a nonserious or serious violation occurred, the director shall issue a written citation.  The citation shall be issued within twenty days for a nonserious violation or within ten days for a serious violation.  Each citation shall contain the following:
1. A particular description of the nature of the violation, including a reference to the provision of this article.
2. A reasonable time to abate the violation or take appropriate action.
3. A notice of the right to a hearing pursuant to title 41, chapter 6, article 10.
F. No citation or notice of de minimis violation may be issued after the expiration of six months from the date of the inspection which produced evidence of the violation.  If in the course of an investigation the department identifies any additional alleged violator, the department may investigate the additional alleged violator.  No citation or notice of de minimis violation may be issued after the expiration of six months from the date any additional alleged violator is identified by the department.
© 2024 Arizona State Legislature. All Rights Reserved