Title: 3
Article: 3-3614

Content:
Arizona Legislature
The Arizona Revised Statutes have been updated to include the revised sections from the 56th Legislature, 1st Regular Session.  Please note that the next update of this compilation will not take place until after the conclusion of the 56th Legislature, 2nd Regular Session, which convenes in January 2024.
This online version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is primarily maintained for legislative drafting purposes and reflects the version of law that is effective on January 1st of the year following the most recent legislative session.  The official version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is published by Thomson Reuters.
3-3614.Applicator certification; categories; criminal records check requirement
A. An application for applicator certification shall be in a form prescribed by the director and be accompanied by the prescribed fee.
B. An individual may apply for certification as an applicator or qualified applicator in any one or a combination of the following categories:
1. Industrial, institutional, structural and health-related pest management.
2. Wood-destroying organism management.
3. Ornamental and turf pest management.
4. Right-of-way pest management.
5. Aquatic pest management.
6. Fumigation.
7. Other categories or subcategories established by rule.
C. An individual who applies for certification as a new applicator or a new qualified applicator shall submit to the division a full set of fingerprints and fees as required by section 41-1750. The director shall submit the fingerprints and fees to the department of public safety for the purpose of obtaining a state and federal criminal records check pursuant to section 41-1750 and Public Law 92-544. The department of public safety may exchange this fingerprint data with the federal bureau of investigation.
D. An individual who applies for certification as a new applicator or a new qualified applicator may meet the requirement prescribed in subsection C of this section by submitting a current, unexpired fingerprint clearance card issued pursuant to section 41-1758.03 or a current, unexpired level I fingerprint clearance card issued pursuant to section 41-1758.07 to the department as part of the individual's application.
© 2024 Arizona State Legislature. All Rights Reserved