Title: 3
Article: 3-374

Content:
Arizona Legislature
The Arizona Revised Statutes have been updated to include the revised sections from the 56th Legislature, 1st Regular Session.  Please note that the next update of this compilation will not take place until after the conclusion of the 56th Legislature, 2nd Regular Session, which convenes in January 2024.
This online version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is primarily maintained for legislative drafting purposes and reflects the version of law that is effective on January 1st of the year following the most recent legislative session.  The official version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is published by Thomson Reuters.
3-374.Availability of information to the public
A. Any records, reports or information obtained from any person under this article, including records, reports or information obtained or prepared by the department, shall be available to the public, except that the information, or a particular part of the information, shall be considered confidential on either:
1. A showing, satisfactory to the director, by any person that the information, or a particular part of the information, if made public, would divulge the trade secrets of the person.
2. A determination by the attorney general that disclosure of the information, or a particular part of the information, would be detrimental to an ongoing investigation by the director.
3. A determination by the attorney general that disclosure of the information or a particular part of the information would be detrimental to an ongoing criminal investigation or to an ongoing or contemplated civil enforcement action under this article in superior court.
B. Notwithstanding subsection A of this section, the following information shall be available to the public:
1. The name and address of any permit applicant or permittee.
2. Information contained in or derivable from the pesticide label or the relevant safety data sheet.
C. Notwithstanding subsection A of this section, the director may disclose any records, reports or information obtained from any person under this article, including records, reports or information obtained by the department, to:
1. Other state employees concerned with administering this article or if relevant to any administrative or judicial proceeding under this article.
2. Employees of the United States environmental protection agency if such information is necessary or required to administer and implement or comply with applicable federal law.

© 2024 Arizona State Legislature. All Rights Reserved