Title: 3
Article: 3-373

Content:
Arizona Legislature
The Arizona Revised Statutes have been updated to include the revised sections from the 56th Legislature, 1st Regular Session.  Please note that the next update of this compilation will not take place until after the conclusion of the 56th Legislature, 2nd Regular Session, which convenes in January 2024.
This online version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is primarily maintained for legislative drafting purposes and reflects the version of law that is effective on January 1st of the year following the most recent legislative session.  The official version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is published by Thomson Reuters.
3-373.Annual pesticide report
The associate director shall submit an annual report to the director, the governor and the legislature on or before October 1 each year containing the following information for the preceding fiscal year relating to the division's activities under this article:
1. The number of full-time employee positions in the division that are authorized and filled for regulating pesticides as of June 30.
2. A brief summary of rules proposed or adopted during the reporting period.
3. The number of persons having each type of permit, certificate, license and registration issued as of June 30.
4. The number of persons whose permits, certificates, licenses or registrations were revoked, suspended or otherwise altered in status with brief statements of the reasons for the revocation, suspension or alteration.
5. The number of written complaints and other communications received by the division which allege a violation of this article or a rule adopted under this article.
6. A summary, by specific category, of the substance of the complaints and communications referred to in paragraph 5 of this section and, for each specific category, the responses or dispositions of those complaints.
7. A compilation, based upon reports filed in compliance with rules adopted pursuant to section 3-363, of the amount, frequency and type of pesticides used in this state by specific categories of acute toxicity and including but not limited to identification of pesticides which:
(a) Are known by the administrator of the federal environmental protection agency to require special application procedures to protect endangered species or which contain ingredients or produce degradation products that are carcinogenic, mutagenic or teratogenic.
(b) Are extremely hazardous substances listed pursuant to section 302 of the superfund amendments and reauthorization act or title III of the clean air act as amended.
(c) Have extended reentry intervals of greater than forty-eight hours for worker protection.
8. Based on reports received from pesticide users and reports prepared pursuant to paragraphs 4, 5 and 6 of this section, specific recommendations regarding statutory or administrative changes to improve pesticide regulation in this state considering environmental and public health and safety factors.
9. Any other information which the associate director believes is useful in reviewing the division's activities.
© 2024 Arizona State Legislature. All Rights Reserved