Title: 3
Article: 3-370

Content:
Arizona Legislature
The Arizona Revised Statutes have been updated to include the revised sections from the 56th Legislature, 1st Regular Session.  Please note that the next update of this compilation will not take place until after the conclusion of the 56th Legislature, 2nd Regular Session, which convenes in January 2024.
This online version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is primarily maintained for legislative drafting purposes and reflects the version of law that is effective on January 1st of the year following the most recent legislative session.  The official version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is published by Thomson Reuters.
3-370.Civil penalty; criminal violation; classification
A. A person who, after a hearing, is found to have caused a nonserious violation of any provision of this article or any rule or order issued or adopted pursuant to this article is subject to probation or suspension, revocation, nonrenewal or denial of a permit, license or certification. Additionally, a person may be subject to a civil penalty of not to exceed five hundred dollars for each nonserious violation.
B. A person who, after a hearing, is found to have caused a serious violation of any provision of this article or any rule or order issued or adopted pursuant to this article is subject to probation or suspension, revocation, nonrenewal or denial of a permit, license or certification. Additionally, the person may be subject to a civil penalty of not more than ten thousand dollars for each serious violation.
C. In addition to civil penalties prescribed by this section, a person who knowingly commits:
1. A nonserious violation of this article is guilty of a class 1 misdemeanor.
2. A serious violation of this article is guilty of a class 6 felony.
D. Actions to recover penalties under subsection C shall be brought by the attorney general in the name of this state in the superior court in the county in which the violation occurred or in a county in which the department maintains an office.
© 2024 Arizona State Legislature. All Rights Reserved