Title: 3
Article: 3-382

Content:
Arizona Legislature
The Arizona Revised Statutes have been updated to include the revised sections from the 56th Legislature, 1st Regular Session.  Please note that the next update of this compilation will not take place until after the conclusion of the 56th Legislature, 2nd Regular Session, which convenes in January 2024.
This online version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is primarily maintained for legislative drafting purposes and reflects the version of law that is effective on January 1st of the year following the most recent legislative session.  The official version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is published by Thomson Reuters.
3-382.Program structure; responsibilities
A. The integrated pest management program shall include programs for pest management and the impact of pest management in the following areas, listed in order of priority:
1. Cotton, grain and forage production.
2. Livestock, fruit, nut, vegetable and ornamentals production.
B. The integrated pest management program shall:
1. Develop systematic insect, disease and weed pest management strategies for use on farms in this state which integrate management tactics into environmentally compatible and economically sound systems to be used by producers, extension personnel and private enterprise.
2. Obtain information regarding crop, animal and stored grain pest occurrence and severity, pesticide usage, other pest management strategies used, effective pest monitoring techniques and scouting intervals and the effectiveness of producers' current pest control practices.
3. Determine the most effective, low cost methods and organizational structures for delivering integrated pest management systems to individual farming operations.
4. Investigate alternative pest management tactics such as biological and cultural control and plant resistance and determine how to integrate these tactics with chemical control and horticultural practices.
5. Determine accurate and time efficient sampling procedures and forecasting methods which can be utilized by private consultants or through cooperative extension.
6. Determine the economic relationship of pest incidence to yield or quality loss.
7. Develop nonpesticide methods of pest management in the areas of cultural practices, biological control and crop resistance.
8. Integrate the proper timing, selection and use of pesticides into overall management programs.
9. Aid growers in executing the most optimal crop protection program by providing them with timely reports on pest presence and population density levels, forecasted pest occurrences, crop growth, weather and other environmental information and by providing the most current interpretation of the data.
10. Act as a training mechanism for individuals at all levels of operation.
C. Wherever possible the director shall encourage, and if an adequate scientific and economic basis exists, may require, applicators, pest control advisors and growers to pursue integrated pest management techniques.
© 2024 Arizona State Legislature. All Rights Reserved