Title: 3
Article: 3-409

Content:
Arizona Legislature
The Arizona Revised Statutes have been updated to include the revised sections from the 56th Legislature, 1st Regular Session.  Please note that the next update of this compilation will not take place until after the conclusion of the 56th Legislature, 2nd Regular Session, which convenes in January 2024.
This online version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is primarily maintained for legislative drafting purposes and reflects the version of law that is effective on January 1st of the year following the most recent legislative session.  The official version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is published by Thomson Reuters.
3-409.Findings
A. Based on testimony received at the public meeting, the director may recommend to the petitioners that the proposed marketing order be modified. If the petitioners make any substantial changes to the proposed marketing order after the public meetings, there shall be at least one additional public meeting to receive evidence and testimony regarding the revised marketing order. If the petitioners make only technical changes to the proposed marketing order, no additional public meeting is required.
B. The director shall approve the marketing order if the director finds:
1. The same marketing agreement or marketing order program is not in effect for the affected commodity in the territory described by the proposed marketing order.
2. The marketing order complies with this article.
3. The costs of administering the proposed marketing order are met by the proposed assessment, if an assessment is necessary.
C. The director shall issue a decision to be mailed to all persons appearing at the public meeting within twenty days after the conclusion of all public meetings. The decision shall state the director's findings, the method of voting on the proposed marketing order and a summary of the evidence and testimony presented at the public meetings.

© 2024 Arizona State Legislature. All Rights Reserved