Title: 3
Article: 3-401

Content:
Arizona Legislature
The Arizona Revised Statutes have been updated to include the revised sections from the 56th Legislature, 1st Regular Session.  Please note that the next update of this compilation will not take place until after the conclusion of the 56th Legislature, 2nd Regular Session, which convenes in January 2024.
This online version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is primarily maintained for legislative drafting purposes and reflects the version of law that is effective on January 1st of the year following the most recent legislative session.  The official version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is published by Thomson Reuters.
3-401.Definitions
In this article, unless the context otherwise requires:
1. "Affected commodity" means the specific citrus, fruit or vegetable that is regulated pursuant to article 2 or 4 of this chapter and that is subject to the marketing agreement or order or the proposed marketing agreement or order.
2. "Affected person" means a producer or shipper of an affected commodity.
3. "Associate director" means the associate director of the citrus, fruit and vegetable division of the department.
4. "Marketing agreement" or "agreement" means an agreement that is developed by producers or shippers of the affected commodity and that is entered into by the director pursuant to this article.
5. "Marketing commission" or "commission" means the marketing commission established under section 3-413.
6. "Marketing committee" or "committee" means a marketing committee established by a marketing agreement according to section 3-426.
7. "Marketing order" or "order" means an order that is developed by producers or shippers of the affected commodity and that is issued by the director pursuant to this article.
8. "Person" means any individual, firm, corporation, trust, association or partnership.
9. "Producer" means a person that has a financial interest in producing or causing citrus, fruit or vegetable commodities to be produced for market in commercial quantities.
10. "Shipper" means a person that engages in shipping, transporting, selling or marketing citrus, fruits or vegetables under the shipper's own registered trademark or label or a person that first markets the fruits or vegetables for the producer.
11. "Volume" means cartons or the equivalent weight of Arizona-grown products marketed in the preceding marketing season.
12. "Written assent" means a signed statement of an affected person consenting to the terms of a marketing order.
© 2024 Arizona State Legislature. All Rights Reserved