Title: 3
Article: 3-407

Content:
Arizona Legislature
The Arizona Revised Statutes have been updated to include the revised sections from the 56th Legislature, 1st Regular Session.  Please note that the next update of this compilation will not take place until after the conclusion of the 56th Legislature, 2nd Regular Session, which convenes in January 2024.
This online version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is primarily maintained for legislative drafting purposes and reflects the version of law that is effective on January 1st of the year following the most recent legislative session.  The official version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is published by Thomson Reuters.
3-407.Official department list
A. The department shall compile a list for the purposes of notice and referendum or written assent procedures. The list shall include the names and addresses of all affected persons and the quantity of the affected commodity produced or shipped by the affected person in the two years preceding the notice or for a lesser time if the affected person has not produced or shipped the affected commodity for the preceding two years.
B. In compiling the list, the department may use records required to be kept by shippers and records reported to citrus, fruit and vegetable standardization by producers and shippers pursuant to articles 2 and 4 of this chapter and rules adopted pursuant to those articles. The department may also notify known affected persons and may request them to respond within fifteen days after the notice with any additional necessary information.
C. Information compiled by the department concerning individual totals of the affected commodity produced or shipped are confidential and are not subject to public disclosure.
D. The list is conclusive in determining whether a marketing order has been approved by referendum or written assent, but an affected person who is not on the department list may register with the department and vote in a referendum or file a written assent if the person submits satisfactory evidence to the department to verify that the affected person is qualified to vote.
© 2024 Arizona State Legislature. All Rights Reserved