Title: 3
Article: 3-418

Content:
Arizona Legislature
The Arizona Revised Statutes have been updated to include the revised sections from the 56th Legislature, 1st Regular Session.  Please note that the next update of this compilation will not take place until after the conclusion of the 56th Legislature, 2nd Regular Session, which convenes in January 2024.
This online version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is primarily maintained for legislative drafting purposes and reflects the version of law that is effective on January 1st of the year following the most recent legislative session.  The official version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is published by Thomson Reuters.
3-418.Failure to pay assessment; penalty; hearing; violation; classification
A. A person who is required to pay assessments pursuant to this article, a marketing order or a marketing agreement and who fails to pay the assessments within sixty days after the billing shall be assessed a penalty of ten per cent of the amount of the total assessments owing and two per cent interest per month on the unpaid balance.  The attorney general may collect assessments, penalties and interest on the request of the marketing commission or marketing committee.
B. The person who fails to pay the required assessments may request a hearing before the marketing commission or marketing committee acting as an administrative law judge pursuant to title 41, chapter 6, article 10 to dispute or determine the amount of the assessments, penalty or interest imposed.  The commission or committee shall hold a hearing if requested.  The commission or committee, after the hearing, shall enter its order determining the amount of any assessments, penalty or interest.  The person shall pay the assessments, penalty and interest assessed within ten days after the notice of the commission's or committee's decision.
C. A person who knowingly fails to pay or remit any monies due or collected as required in this article and the marketing order is guilty of a class 2 misdemeanor.
© 2024 Arizona State Legislature. All Rights Reserved