Title: 3
Article: 3-419

Content:
Arizona Legislature
The Arizona Revised Statutes have been updated to include the revised sections from the 56th Legislature, 1st Regular Session.  Please note that the next update of this compilation will not take place until after the conclusion of the 56th Legislature, 2nd Regular Session, which convenes in January 2024.
This online version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is primarily maintained for legislative drafting purposes and reflects the version of law that is effective on January 1st of the year following the most recent legislative session.  The official version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is published by Thomson Reuters.
3-419.Deposit of assessments; use on termination
A. Monies collected pursuant to this article shall be deposited in the marketing commission's or marketing committee's accounts to be administered and disbursed by the commission or committee for the purposes prescribed in this article. Monies collected pursuant to a marketing order or marketing agreement may not be used for any purpose other than the order or agreement.
B. The monies in a marketing commission or marketing committee account may be invested pursuant to section 35-313. Interest earned on these monies shall be credited to the marketing commission or marketing committee account.
C. If monies are unexpended at the end of a fiscal period, the marketing commission or marketing committee shall carry the monies forward to the next fiscal period.
D. If the marketing order or marketing agreement is terminated and the expenses are paid, monies shall be returned to the affected persons pro rata unless the amounts are too small to be practicable or may be expended by the marketing commission or marketing committee on any program consistent with the marketing order or marketing agreement.
E. No specific legislative appropriation is necessary to operate a marketing commission or marketing committee.

© 2024 Arizona State Legislature. All Rights Reserved