Title: 3
Article: 3-420

Content:
Arizona Legislature
The Arizona Revised Statutes have been updated to include the revised sections from the 56th Legislature, 1st Regular Session.  Please note that the next update of this compilation will not take place until after the conclusion of the 56th Legislature, 2nd Regular Session, which convenes in January 2024.
This online version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is primarily maintained for legislative drafting purposes and reflects the version of law that is effective on January 1st of the year following the most recent legislative session.  The official version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is published by Thomson Reuters.
3-420.Inspection and enforcement
A. An inspector, discharging his duties, may enter every facility during operating hours or commercial vehicles in this state where an affected commodity is produced, stored, packed, delivered for shipment, being transported or offered for sale and inspect representative samples of the affected commodity to determine compliance with a marketing order or marketing agreement.
B. If an inspector believes a marketing order or marketing agreement has been violated in terms of quality, condition, size, maturity or pack, the inspector may hold the lot pursuant to the time specified in the marketing order or marketing agreement.
C. If the lot does not comply with the marketing order or marketing agreement, the department shall tag the lot and notify the person in possession. The owner of the lot may recondition the lot within the time specified in the marketing order or marketing agreement, and if compliance is achieved, the lot shall be released by the department.
D. If the owner does not recondition and bring the lot into compliance within the time prescribed in the marketing order or marketing agreement, the inspector, after receiving written consent of the owner may divert the lot to other lawful purposes or destroy the lot.
E. If the owner refuses to give consent to the inspector to divert or destroy the lot and the owner does not recondition and bring the lot into compliance within the time prescribed in the marketing order or marketing agreement, the inspector may attach a notice of disposal to the lot that is not in compliance with the marketing order or marketing agreement and deliver a copy of the notice of disposal to the owner.
F. The notice of disposal requires the owner to properly dispose of the lot by:
1. Diverting it to another lawful purpose, such as contributing it to a nonprofit charitable organization.
2. Selling it, as long as it is not sold in regular channels of trade, such as for processing.
3. Destroying it.
© 2024 Arizona State Legislature. All Rights Reserved