Title: 3
Article: 3-421

Content:
Arizona Legislature
The Arizona Revised Statutes have been updated to include the revised sections from the 56th Legislature, 1st Regular Session.  Please note that the next update of this compilation will not take place until after the conclusion of the 56th Legislature, 2nd Regular Session, which convenes in January 2024.
This online version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is primarily maintained for legislative drafting purposes and reflects the version of law that is effective on January 1st of the year following the most recent legislative session.  The official version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is published by Thomson Reuters.
3-421.Violations; civil penalties; hearing; court action
A. A person who violates a marketing order or marketing agreement three times during a marketing season is subject to a civil penalty of at least fifty dollars but not more than five hundred dollars for the first offense and a civil penalty of at least one hundred dollars but not more than one thousand dollars for subsequent offenses. A person who intentionally violates a marketing order is subject to a civil penalty of at least one thousand dollars but not more than ten thousand dollars. Each day of violation is a separate offense. A person who knowingly furnishes a false report is subject to a civil penalty of five hundred dollars.
B. For civil actions, an administrative hearing may be obtained pursuant to title 41, chapter 6, article 10.
C. The director, marketing commission or marketing committee may apply to the superior court for a temporary restraining order or injunction if there are three or more violations of a marketing order, marketing agreement or this article or any rules adopted pursuant to this article during a marketing season. If the director, marketing commission or marketing committee is successful in the court action, the defendant may be required to pay the costs of prosecution. A court action may be brought in the county where the defendant resides or where the act or omission occurred or in the county of the state capital.
D. An action for penalties must be commenced within three years after the violation. The suspension, substantial change or termination of any marketing order or marketing agreement does not suspend or terminate any causes of action that have accrued under it.
© 2024 Arizona State Legislature. All Rights Reserved