Title: 3
Article: 3-428

Content:
Arizona Legislature
The Arizona Revised Statutes have been updated to include the revised sections from the 56th Legislature, 1st Regular Session.  Please note that the next update of this compilation will not take place until after the conclusion of the 56th Legislature, 2nd Regular Session, which convenes in January 2024.
This online version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is primarily maintained for legislative drafting purposes and reflects the version of law that is effective on January 1st of the year following the most recent legislative session.  The official version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is published by Thomson Reuters.
3-428.Approval of a marketing agreement; amendments; term
A. A marketing agreement applies only to producers and shippers who sign the marketing agreement and is effective on the approval of the director. Additional signatories may be added with the approval of the director. If signatories withdraw, the director may review and terminate the marketing agreement if not enough signatories remain to defray expenses of the marketing agreement.
B. A marketing agreement may be amended at any time with the approval of the director and all of the signatories.  If a signatory fails to vote on a proposed amendment within thirty days after notice of the proposed amendment, the signatory is deemed to have approved the amendment.
C. A marketing agreement is binding on signatories for a period specified in the marketing agreement, but not longer than twelve months. The marketing agreement may be renewed for an additional three terms without the requirement of a public meeting provided in section 3-425.
D. If a marketing agreement remains effective for a fourth term, the department must hold a public meeting pursuant to section 3-425 during that term.  The proposed marketing agreement may amend the current agreement. If the marketing agreement is reapproved, the new term begins on the expiration of the existing term.

© 2024 Arizona State Legislature. All Rights Reserved