Title: 3
Article: 3-468.04

Content:
Arizona Legislature
The Arizona Revised Statutes have been updated to include the revised sections from the 56th Legislature, 1st Regular Session.  Please note that the next update of this compilation will not take place until after the conclusion of the 56th Legislature, 2nd Regular Session, which convenes in January 2024.
This online version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is primarily maintained for legislative drafting purposes and reflects the version of law that is effective on January 1st of the year following the most recent legislative session.  The official version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is published by Thomson Reuters.
3-468.04.Fees; collection; budget
A. On or before July 1 of each year, the council shall assess a fee of not more than $.05 per standard carton or forty pounds of equivalent weight in bulk bins of citrus produced. The council may assess the fee for citrus produced for the fresh market and the fee for citrus produced for juice production at different amounts. For the purposes of this subsection, "standard carton" means a container or package prescribed for each kind of citrus fruit pursuant to article 2 of this chapter and rules adopted under that article.
B. Each grower-shipper, shipper and handler shall keep a complete and accurate record of all citrus handled by such entities and the producer. These records shall contain such information as required to be kept for the citrus, fruit and vegetable trust fund pursuant to articles 2 and 4 of this chapter and rules adopted pursuant to those articles.
C. Assessments shall be collected from the grower-shipper, shipper or handler first marketing the citrus being assessed. The grower-shipper, shipper or handler is a trustee of the monies until they are paid to the council pursuant to subsection B of this section and according to procedures established pursuant to articles 2 and 4 of this chapter and rules adopted pursuant to those articles. A citrus producer is responsible for paying the fee unless the fee is withheld for payment by the grower-shipper, shipper or handler first marketing the citrus.
D. Before establishing the annual fee, the council shall establish a budget. The budget is effective on approval of the council.
E. Title 41, chapter 6 does not apply to setting and collecting the fee under this section, but the council shall provide thirty days' advance notice of the meeting at which any fee will be increased and the amount of the proposed fee.  The council shall receive public testimony at the meeting regarding the fee.
© 2024 Arizona State Legislature. All Rights Reserved