Title: 3
Article: 3-468.02

Content:
Arizona Legislature
The Arizona Revised Statutes have been updated to include the revised sections from the 56th Legislature, 1st Regular Session.  Please note that the next update of this compilation will not take place until after the conclusion of the 56th Legislature, 2nd Regular Session, which convenes in January 2024.
This online version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is primarily maintained for legislative drafting purposes and reflects the version of law that is effective on January 1st of the year following the most recent legislative session.  The official version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is published by Thomson Reuters.
3-468.02.Powers and duties of the council
A. The council shall:
1. Receive and disburse monies to be used in administering this article.
2. Annually elect a chairman, secretary and treasurer from among its members.
3. Meet at least once each calendar quarter or at such times as called by the chairman or when requested by three or more members of the council. A quorum consists of three or more members of the council.
4. Keep a permanent record of its proceedings and make these records available for public inspection for any lawful purpose.
5. Prepare for the governor and the citrus industry an annual report of its activities, receipts and expenditures. A copy of the annual report shall be available to any interested citrus producer and the general public on request.
6. Organize and administer any referendum called under subsection C, paragraph 11 of this section.
7. Prescribe fees to be assessed within the limits prescribed in section 3-468.04.
B. The council may authorize or contract for:
1. Research, development and survey programs concerning varietal development.
2. Programs for citrus pest eradication.
3. Programs concerning production, harvesting, handling and hauling from field to market.
4. Any other programs, excluding sales or marketing, that the council deems to be appropriate for the purposes of this article.
C. The council may:
1. Disseminate reliable information, including the results of research studies, surveys and information obtained as a result of research.
2. Sue and be sued as a council, without individual liability, for acts of the council within the scope of the powers and duties conferred on it by this article.
3. Enter into contracts to carry out the purposes of this article, including contracts for research and development of citrus.
4. Appoint advisory groups composed of representatives from organizations, institutions, or businesses related to or interested in the welfare of the citrus industry.
5. Make grants to research agencies for financing appropriate studies, or for purchase or acquisition of equipment and facilities consistent with this article.
6. Employ or retain and fix the compensation of a qualified person or a qualified entity to manage on behalf of the council and other personnel that are necessary to carry out the provisions of this article.
7. Cooperate with any local, state or nationwide organization or agency engaged in work or activities similar or related to those of the council and enter into contracts with such organizations or agencies for carrying on joint programs.
8. Act jointly and in cooperation with this state or any other state or the federal government, and spend monies to administer any program deemed by the council to be beneficial to the citrus industry of this state.
9. Adopt rules necessary to promptly and effectively administer this article.
10. Accept grants, donations, contributions, gifts, property or services or other assistance from public or private sources to further the objectives of this article.
11. Refer to the citrus producers in this state for an advisory vote the question of setting fees or establishing or continuing any program authorized by this article.
12. Investigate and prosecute in the name of this state any action or suit to enforce the collection or ensure payment of the authorized fees.
13. Provide for an annual audit of its accounts by a qualified public accounting firm and, if an audit or financial statement is prepared, shall make the audit or financial statement available to the general public and the auditor general on request.

© 2024 Arizona State Legislature. All Rights Reserved