Title: 3
Article: 3-498

Content:
Arizona Legislature
The Arizona Revised Statutes have been updated to include the revised sections from the 56th Legislature, 1st Regular Session.  Please note that the next update of this compilation will not take place until after the conclusion of the 56th Legislature, 2nd Regular Session, which convenes in January 2024.
This online version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is primarily maintained for legislative drafting purposes and reflects the version of law that is effective on January 1st of the year following the most recent legislative session.  The official version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is published by Thomson Reuters.
3-498.Appeals from inspection; fee
A. If the owner, or the owner's agent, of all or part of a lot disagrees with the decision of an inspector as to whether the lot or part of the lot conforms to the standards and other rules adopted pursuant to this article, the owner or agent may request that the associate director or the  associate director's designee, other than the inspector, review the testing procedures used by the inspector. When reviewing the procedures, the associate director or designee shall consider the accuracy of the test instruments, the inspection methods, including the sample size, the defect determination, the percentage of the defective product and any other relevant information.
B. The associate director or designee shall conduct the review within eight hours after the request. If the associate director or designee determines that the inspector used improper testing procedures, a new inspection shall be ordered of the lot or part of the lot within four hours after completing the review in order to determine compliance. The determination after the reinspection is final.
C. The person who requests the review shall pay a fee of twenty-five dollars for the review. All monies collected under this subsection shall be deposited in the citrus, fruit and vegetable trust fund.
© 2024 Arizona State Legislature. All Rights Reserved