Title: 3
Article: 3-499

Content:
Arizona Legislature
The Arizona Revised Statutes have been updated to include the revised sections from the 56th Legislature, 1st Regular Session.  Please note that the next update of this compilation will not take place until after the conclusion of the 56th Legislature, 2nd Regular Session, which convenes in January 2024.
This online version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is primarily maintained for legislative drafting purposes and reflects the version of law that is effective on January 1st of the year following the most recent legislative session.  The official version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is published by Thomson Reuters.
3-499.Shipping point and terminal market inspections; fees; Arizona federal-state inspection fund
A. The department may:
1. Conduct shipping point and terminal market inspections of fresh fruit, vegetables and other products pursuant to one or more cooperative agreements with the United States department of agriculture.
2. Establish and collect inspection fees for work performed under any such agreement. The fees shall be reasonable and adequate to cover the cost of the services performed.
3. Prepare, furnish and retain program reports as prescribed by the cooperative agreement.
B. The Arizona federal-state inspection fund is established consisting of revenues from fees and expenses collected pursuant to this section. The director shall administer the fund. On notice from the director, the state treasurer shall invest and divest monies in the fund as provided by section 35-313, and monies earned from investment shall be credited to the fund. Monies in the fund are exempt from the provisions of section 35-190 relating to lapsing of appropriations.
C. Monies in the fund are continuously appropriated to the department and may be used only for conducting work under, and related expenses prescribed by, the cooperative agreement. The department shall maintain a complete accounting of all receipts and disbursements from the fund. The fund is subject to such periodic independent audits as prescribed by the cooperative agreement.
© 2024 Arizona State Legislature. All Rights Reserved