Title: 3
Article: 3-526.01

Content:
Arizona Legislature
The Arizona Revised Statutes have been updated to include the revised sections from the 56th Legislature, 1st Regular Session.  Please note that the next update of this compilation will not take place until after the conclusion of the 56th Legislature, 2nd Regular Session, which convenes in January 2024.
This online version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is primarily maintained for legislative drafting purposes and reflects the version of law that is effective on January 1st of the year following the most recent legislative session.  The official version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is published by Thomson Reuters.
3-526.01.Arizona iceberg lettuce research council; appointment; term
A. The Arizona iceberg lettuce research council is established consisting of seven producers appointed by the governor.  The members shall be appointed as follows:
1. Four producers from Yuma county.
2. Three producers from any iceberg lettuce producing area in this state.
B. The governor may consult with any recognized vegetable grower and shipper organizations in this state in appointing members to the council.
C. The term of office of each council member is for three years beginning January 1 and ending December 31 of the appropriate year. Members are limited to two consecutive terms of office, except that a member who is appointed to fill a vacancy may serve two consecutive terms plus the unexpired term that fills the vacancy.  A member who completes a second three-year term is ineligible for reappointment for one year.  On the expiration of a term of a member or in the event of a vacancy, the governor shall appoint a successor.
D. The office of a member is deemed vacant and the governor shall appoint a person to fill the remainder of the term under any of the following circumstances:
1. The member is no longer a producer.
2. The member is unable to perform the duties of the office.
3. The absence of the member from four consecutive council meetings if the absences have not been excused by the council.
E. Members of the council are not eligible to receive compensation but are eligible for reimbursement of expenses pursuant to title 38, chapter 4, article 2.

© 2024 Arizona State Legislature. All Rights Reserved