Title: 3
Article: 3-526.04

Content:
Arizona Legislature
The Arizona Revised Statutes have been updated to include the revised sections from the 56th Legislature, 1st Regular Session.  Please note that the next update of this compilation will not take place until after the conclusion of the 56th Legislature, 2nd Regular Session, which convenes in January 2024.
This online version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is primarily maintained for legislative drafting purposes and reflects the version of law that is effective on January 1st of the year following the most recent legislative session.  The official version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is published by Thomson Reuters.
3-526.04.Fees; collection; budget
A. On or before July 1 of each calendar year, the council shall assess a fee of not more than one-half cent per carton of packed iceberg lettuce or bulk bins assessed according to forty-five pounds of equivalent weight of iceberg lettuce prepared for market or an equivalent basis.
B. Each grower-shipper, shipper and handler shall keep a complete and accurate record of all iceberg lettuce handled by such entities and the producer. These records shall contain such information as required to be kept for the citrus, fruit and vegetable trust fund pursuant to articles 2 and 4 of this chapter and rules adopted pursuant to those articles.
C. Assessments shall be collected from the grower-shipper, shipper or handler first marketing the iceberg lettuce being assessed. The grower-shipper, shipper or handler is a trustee of the monies until they are paid to the council at the time and in the manner prescribed by the council. An iceberg lettuce producer is responsible for paying the fee unless the fee is withheld for payment by the grower-shipper, shipper or handler first marketing the iceberg lettuce.
D. Before establishing the annual fee, the council shall establish a budget.  The budget is effective on approval of the council.
E. Title 41, chapter 6 does not apply to setting and collecting the fee under this section, but the council shall provide thirty days' advance notice of the meeting at which any fee will be increased and the amount of the proposed fee.  The council shall receive public testimony at the meeting regarding the fee.

© 2024 Arizona State Legislature. All Rights Reserved