Title: 3
Article: 3-526.08

Content:
Arizona Legislature
The Arizona Revised Statutes have been updated to include the revised sections from the 56th Legislature, 1st Regular Session.  Please note that the next update of this compilation will not take place until after the conclusion of the 56th Legislature, 2nd Regular Session, which convenes in January 2024.
This online version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is primarily maintained for legislative drafting purposes and reflects the version of law that is effective on January 1st of the year following the most recent legislative session.  The official version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is published by Thomson Reuters.
3-526.08.Termination of council
A. The council may be terminated as provided in this section. The council shall conduct a referendum among the state's producers if either of the following occurs:
1. If the council, by a two-thirds vote of its membership, determines that it is no longer in the best interest of the iceberg lettuce industry of this state to continue the existence of the council and its programs.
2. On receipt by the council of a petition calling for a referendum signed by ten per cent or more of the state's contributing producers, which shall be signed not more than six months before its presentation to the council.
B. The ballot for the referendum shall be in such form as to record a "Yes" or "No" answer to the question: "Shall the existence of the Arizona iceberg lettuce research council and its programs, as authorized in state statute, be continued?"  If the majority or more of those producers voting votes in favor of discontinuing and terminating the council and its programs, the council shall recommend to the legislature that the council be terminated. If less than a majority of the producers who voted in the referendum favors termination of the council, no subsequent referendum may be conducted for at least two years.  The council shall pay the expenses necessary to carry out the referendum.
© 2024 Arizona State Legislature. All Rights Reserved