Title: 3
Article: 3-526.03

Content:
Arizona Legislature
The Arizona Revised Statutes have been updated to include the revised sections from the 56th Legislature, 1st Regular Session.  Please note that the next update of this compilation will not take place until after the conclusion of the 56th Legislature, 2nd Regular Session, which convenes in January 2024.
This online version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is primarily maintained for legislative drafting purposes and reflects the version of law that is effective on January 1st of the year following the most recent legislative session.  The official version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is published by Thomson Reuters.
3-526.03.Administrative services; reimbursement
A. The council may employ staff, to serve at the pleasure of the council, and may prescribe the terms and conditions of employment of employees as necessary to perform the functions prescribed by this article. The employees of the council are exempt from title 38, chapter 4 and chapter 5, article 2 and title 41, chapter 4, articles 5 and 6. The council may also enter into an interagency agreement pursuant to title 11, chapter 7, article 3 with the department to provide the necessary administrative services to the council including:
1. Providing secretarial and other services necessary for the council to carry out its activities.
2. Establishing separate operating accounts for the council.
3. Providing necessary financial and accounting services to the council including the issuance of checks, payment of bills approved by the council, annual audits, monthly or annual expenditure and receipt reports, preparation of an annual budget and any other financial activities requested by the council according to and under the provisions of state law.
4. Receiving mail and other communications for the council.
5. Receiving monies authorized under this article for deposit, pursuant to sections 35-146 and 35-147, in the appropriate funds.
6. Accepting donated monies on behalf of the council to be credited to the account of the council.
7. Providing space for the meetings of the council.
8. Assisting in the adoption of rules proposed by the council.
9. Providing any other administrative services which the council requests or finds necessary.
B. If the department performs any function under this article, it acts as the agent of the council and has no authority or control over the council or the council's employees or assets.
C. The council shall reimburse the department for administrative services from the monies received under this article in an amount agreed on by the council. Monies received by the department shall be deposited, pursuant to sections 35-146 and 35-147, in the appropriate fund as required by section 3-108.
D. Department employees under contract to the council under provisions of an interagency agreement pursuant to title 11, chapter 7, article 3 shall remain under the direct supervision of the department unless otherwise agreed to by the council and department.
© 2024 Arizona State Legislature. All Rights Reserved