Title: 3
Article: 3-525.07

Content:
Arizona Legislature
The Arizona Revised Statutes have been updated to include the revised sections from the 56th Legislature, 1st Regular Session.  Please note that the next update of this compilation will not take place until after the conclusion of the 56th Legislature, 2nd Regular Session, which convenes in January 2024.
This online version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is primarily maintained for legislative drafting purposes and reflects the version of law that is effective on January 1st of the year following the most recent legislative session.  The official version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is published by Thomson Reuters.
3-525.07.Violations; classification; injunctive relief
A. A person is guilty of a class 1 misdemeanor who knowingly:
1. Impedes, obstructs, hinders, improperly influences or otherwise prevents or attempts to prevent the director, the associate director or any authorized employee, inspector or agent of the department in performing any duty in connection with this article.
2. Makes any materially false statement or representation in any written document required to be submitted or maintained pursuant to section 3-525.03 or 3-525.04.
B. An inspector is guilty of a class 1 misdemeanor who knowingly:
1. Makes a wrong or improper inspection pursuant to this article.
2. Accepts monies or other consideration either directly or indirectly in exchange for an improper performance of the inspector's duty.
3. Seizes any produce improperly or unlawfully while acting under this article.
4. Fails to request that the proper authorities bring an action to prosecute a violation of this article or rules adopted pursuant to this article.
C. If a person fails or refuses to comply with or continues to violate any provision of this article or a rule adopted pursuant to this article, the director may apply for and the court may grant a temporary restraining order or preliminary or permanent injunction.  A decision to seek injunctive relief does not preclude other forms of relief or enforcement against the violator.
© 2024 Arizona State Legislature. All Rights Reserved