Title: 3
Article: 3-527.01

Content:
Arizona Legislature
The Arizona Revised Statutes have been updated to include the revised sections from the 56th Legislature, 1st Regular Session.  Please note that the next update of this compilation will not take place until after the conclusion of the 56th Legislature, 2nd Regular Session, which convenes in January 2024.
This online version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is primarily maintained for legislative drafting purposes and reflects the version of law that is effective on January 1st of the year following the most recent legislative session.  The official version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is published by Thomson Reuters.
3-527.01.Citrus, fruit and vegetable advisory council; membership; terms; vacancy; compensation; definition
A. The citrus, fruit and vegetable advisory council is established consisting of members appointed by the governor as follows:
1. One citrus producer.
2. One apple, grape or tree fruit producer.
3. One iceberg lettuce producer from Yuma county.
4. Four fruit or vegetable producers, excluding producers exclusively engaged in growing citrus, apples, grapes or tree fruit, including one fruit or vegetable producer from Maricopa, Pinal or Pima county and one from Yuma or La Paz county.
5. One member from Santa Cruz county who is subject to article 4.1 of this chapter. If no person from Santa Cruz county applies for the position, the governor may appoint a member at large who is engaged in harvesting, holding or packing as defined in section 3-525 and who is subject to article 4.1 of this chapter.
6. One member who operates a farm or an entity engaged in harvesting or packing that is subject to article 4.1 of this chapter and for which, on a rolling basis during the three-year period before the member's appointment, the farm's average annual monetary value of produce sold or the value of the entity's harvesting or packing services was at least two hundred fifty thousand dollars but not more than five hundred thousand dollars.
B. The governor may consult with any recognized citrus, fruit and vegetable organization in this state in making appointments to the council.
C. The term of office of each council member is three years and shall begin on January 1 and end on December 31 of the appropriate year. On the expiration of a term of a member or in the event of a vacancy, a successor shall be appointed by the governor.
D. The office of any member is deemed vacant and the governor shall appoint a person to fill the remainder of the term under any of the following circumstances:
1. The member no longer meets the qualifications for appointment.
2. The member is unable to perform the duties on the council.
3. The member has become a resident of another state.
4. The member is absent from four consecutive council meetings if the absences have not been excused by the council.
E. Members of the council are not eligible to receive compensation but are eligible for reimbursement of expenses pursuant to title 38, chapter 4, article 2.
F. For the purposes of this section, "producer" means a person that is engaged in the business of producing citrus, fruits or vegetables in this state or causing citrus, fruits or vegetables to be produced in this state for distribution and sale through interstate commerce.
© 2024 Arizona State Legislature. All Rights Reserved