Title: 3
Article: 3-584

Content:
Arizona Legislature
The Arizona Revised Statutes have been updated to include the revised sections from the 56th Legislature, 1st Regular Session.  Please note that the next update of this compilation will not take place until after the conclusion of the 56th Legislature, 2nd Regular Session, which convenes in January 2024.
This online version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is primarily maintained for legislative drafting purposes and reflects the version of law that is effective on January 1st of the year following the most recent legislative session.  The official version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is published by Thomson Reuters.
3-584.Powers and duties of the council
A. The council shall:
1. Meet at least once during each calendar quarter and more frequently on the call of the chairman, vice-chairman or any three members of the council.
2. Annually elect a chairman from among its members.
3. Elect a secretary and a treasurer from among its members.
4. Establish an executive committee, consisting of the chairman, secretary and treasurer. The executive committee shall act pursuant to direction received from the full council, or if the situation arises, the executive committee shall act and then bring the subject and its action before the full council at the next regular meeting of the council for review and ratification.
5. Establish fees to be assessed within the limits prescribed in section 3-587 to be held in trust in, and subject to the terms and conditions prescribed for, the Arizona grain research trust fund established by section 3-590.
B. Programs and projects authorized under this article may include:
1. Cooperation in state, regional, national or international activities with public or private organizations or individuals to assist in developing and expanding markets and reducing the cost of marketing grain and grain products.
2. Participation in research projects and programs to assist in reducing fresh water consumption, developing new grain varieties, improved production and handling methods, research and design of new or improved harvesting and handling equipment.
3. Any program or project that the council determines appropriate to provide education, publicity or other assistance to facilitate further development of the Arizona grain industry.
C. The council may:
1. Adopt administrative rules necessary to promptly and effectively administer this article.
2. Appoint subordinate officers and employees of the council, prescribe their duties and fix their compensation.
3. Accept donations of monies, property, services or other assistance from public or private sources for the purpose of furthering the objectives of this article.  All donations of monies shall be held in trust in, and subject to the terms and conditions prescribed for, the Arizona grain research trust fund established by section 3-590.
4. Investigate and prosecute in the name of this state any action or suit to enforce the collection or ensure payment of the fees authorized and sue and be sued in the name of the council.
5. Make grants to research agencies for financing appropriate studies, research projects and programs to assist in reducing fresh water consumption, developing new grain varieties, improved production and handling methods and research and design of new or improved harvesting and handling equipment.

© 2024 Arizona State Legislature. All Rights Reserved