Title: 3
Article: 3-581

Content:
Arizona Legislature
The Arizona Revised Statutes have been updated to include the revised sections from the 56th Legislature, 1st Regular Session.  Please note that the next update of this compilation will not take place until after the conclusion of the 56th Legislature, 2nd Regular Session, which convenes in January 2024.
This online version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is primarily maintained for legislative drafting purposes and reflects the version of law that is effective on January 1st of the year following the most recent legislative session.  The official version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is published by Thomson Reuters.
3-581.Definitions
In this article, unless the context otherwise requires:
1. "Council" means the Arizona grain research and promotion council.
2. "First buyer" means a person, partnership, corporation or cooperative that purchases grain from a producer in the first instance or a public or private lienholder, secured party or pledgee, or assignee of the lienholder, secured party or pledgee, who gains title to the grain from the grower as a result of exercising any legal rights by the lienholder, secured party, pledgee or assignee regardless of when the lien, security interest or pledge was created. First buyer also includes a public or private person who acquires a lien or security interest or receives a pledge of the grain after the grain is harvested.
3. "Grain" means the seed of barley and wheat of all classes produced for use as food, feed or seed or produced for any industrial or commercial use.
4. "Marketing year" means a one year period from February 1 through January 31 of the following calendar year.
5. "Producer" means a person, partnership, corporation or cooperative in this state that produces and sells grain in commercial channels. In the case of a partnership, each partner who regularly receives a portion of the gross receipts directly from the buyer is considered a producer.
© 2024 Arizona State Legislature. All Rights Reserved