Title: 3
Article: 3-588

Content:
Arizona Legislature
The Arizona Revised Statutes have been updated to include the revised sections from the 56th Legislature, 1st Regular Session.  Please note that the next update of this compilation will not take place until after the conclusion of the 56th Legislature, 2nd Regular Session, which convenes in January 2024.
This online version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is primarily maintained for legislative drafting purposes and reflects the version of law that is effective on January 1st of the year following the most recent legislative session.  The official version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is published by Thomson Reuters.
3-588.Administrative services; reimbursement
A. The department shall provide through an intergovernmental agreement necessary administrative services to the council in conducting its activities including:
1. Providing secretarial and other services necessary for the council to carry out its activities.
2. Establishing separate operating accounts for the council.
3. Providing necessary financial and accounting services to the council including issuing checks, paying bills approved by the council, preparing annual audits, expenditure and receipt reports whether monthly or annually and any other activities requested by the council.
4. Receiving mail and other communications for the council.
5. Receiving monies authorized under this article for deposit, pursuant to sections 35-146 and 35-147, in the appropriate funds.
6. Accepting donated monies on behalf of the council to be credited to the account of the council.
7. Providing meeting facilities for the council.
8. Providing for producer elections as provided in this article.
9. Providing any other administrative services which the council requests or finds necessary.
B. The council shall reimburse the department for all of the administrative services rendered for the benefit of the council from the monies received under this article in an amount agreed on by the council and department. Monies received by the department shall be deposited, pursuant to sections 35-146 and 35-147, in the administrative support fund established by section 3-108.
© 2024 Arizona State Legislature. All Rights Reserved