Title: 3
Article: 3-603

Content:
Arizona Legislature
The Arizona Revised Statutes have been updated to include the revised sections from the 56th Legislature, 1st Regular Session.  Please note that the next update of this compilation will not take place until after the conclusion of the 56th Legislature, 2nd Regular Session, which convenes in January 2024.
This online version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is primarily maintained for legislative drafting purposes and reflects the version of law that is effective on January 1st of the year following the most recent legislative session.  The official version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is published by Thomson Reuters.
3-603.Powers and duties; state dairy supervisor; qualifications; production of papers; formal requirements of complaints
A. The associate director, with the approval of the director, shall employ a state dairy supervisor to enforce the provisions of this article. The supervisor shall recommend to the director for adoption rules deemed necessary or advisable to carry out the provisions thereof.
B. The supervisor shall be a person who has experience in the dairy industry and must possess technical and educational qualifications or practical experience in producing, handling and testing milk and in other matters relating to the dairy industry.
C. If the production of papers, books and records relating to any matter under investigation is deemed advisable, the director may apply to the superior court in any county for an order requiring the production of the papers, books and records. If the court is satisfied that the papers, books and records are pertinent to and helpful in the matter under investigation, their production shall be ordered.
D. A complaint filed with the department charging noncompliance with or violation of any provision of this article shall be in writing and signed by the complainant, but a complaint by a producer relating to the accuracy of a butterfat, bacterial or other test directly affecting the price received by the complainant need not be in writing.
© 2024 Arizona State Legislature. All Rights Reserved