Title: 3
Article: 3-619

Content:
Arizona Legislature
The Arizona Revised Statutes have been updated to include the revised sections from the 56th Legislature, 1st Regular Session.  Please note that the next update of this compilation will not take place until after the conclusion of the 56th Legislature, 2nd Regular Session, which convenes in January 2024.
This online version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is primarily maintained for legislative drafting purposes and reflects the version of law that is effective on January 1st of the year following the most recent legislative session.  The official version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is published by Thomson Reuters.
3-619.Qualification of sampler; license; certificate of proficiency; revocation
A. No person shall sample milk or cream for the purpose of determining the amount of milk fat contained therein where the result of the test is used as a basis for payment for the milk or cream, or for official inspection or public record, unless licensed by the division. An applicant for a license shall give proof satisfactory to the associate director of his ability to perform his duties and shall pay a license fee of five dollars. The license shall be valid for the calendar year in which issued and upon payment of a renewal fee of one dollar fifty cents shall be renewed for each year in which the licensee desires to operate. A license not renewed prior to February 1 is void.
B. No person shall test milk or cream for the purpose of determining the butterfat content thereof, when the result of the test is used to determine the purchase sales value or the legal standard of the product, unless the tester has a tester's license. A tester's license may be obtained from the division by presenting a certificate of proficiency, and payment of a license fee of five dollars. The license shall be valid for the calendar year in which issued, and upon payment of a renewal fee of one dollar fifty cents shall be renewed for each year in which the tester desires to operate. A license not renewed prior to February 1 is void.
C. A certificate of proficiency may be obtained only from the department of dairy husbandry of the university of Arizona. The applicant therefor shall appear before the department of dairy husbandry or an official representative thereof and submit to such written examination and conduct such demonstration of laboratory technique as the department of dairy husbandry or its representative may require. Upon successfully completing the examination the department of dairy husbandry shall issue the certificate to an applicant displaying required proficiency. A tester's license issued by a state other than this state shall be accepted from the person named thereon in lieu of the certificate of proficiency, but the tester shall have been actively engaged in testing under the license for a period of not less than ninety days and shall furnish proof thereof. Each license shall be kept at the place in which the licensee is employed and shall be open to inspection.
D. A license may be revoked by the associate director, after a hearing upon due notice to the licensee, for a false statement in the application, dishonesty, incompetency or inaccuracy, or for violating any provision of this article. On request, the director shall review any action taken by the associate director under this subsection.
© 2024 Arizona State Legislature. All Rights Reserved