Title: 3
Article: 3-615

Content:
Arizona Legislature
The Arizona Revised Statutes have been updated to include the revised sections from the 56th Legislature, 1st Regular Session.  Please note that the next update of this compilation will not take place until after the conclusion of the 56th Legislature, 2nd Regular Session, which convenes in January 2024.
This online version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is primarily maintained for legislative drafting purposes and reflects the version of law that is effective on January 1st of the year following the most recent legislative session.  The official version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is published by Thomson Reuters.
3-615.Milk holding tanks; structural requirements; measuring device
A. A milk holding tank shall be so designed, constructed and installed as to withstand ordinary usage and permit accurate measurement of the fluid contents thereof, and shall be so maintained by the owner.  The tanks shall be so designed, constructed, installed and maintained that complete delivery of the contents may be made through delivery faucets or valves. Each tank shall be plainly marked by die stamping in letters or numerals that are not less than one-fourth inch in height showing the approved calibrated capacity to the nearest gallon, and shall be equipped with a means by which the calibration level may be readily determined. The shell, bulkheads and supporting framework shall be so constructed that they will not become distorted under any condition of liquid lading, and means shall be provided for the sealing of adjustable parts in such a manner as to prevent the removal or changing of position without destroying or mutilating the seal. Each milk holding tank shall be equipped with a measuring device approved by the state inspector of the weights and measures services division of the department.
B. It shall be unlawful to alter or tamper with a milk holding tank or any part thereof in such a way as to give an inaccurate measurement of the fluid contents thereof.

© 2024 Arizona State Legislature. All Rights Reserved