Title: 3
Article: 3-627

Content:
Arizona Legislature
The Arizona Revised Statutes have been updated to include the revised sections from the 56th Legislature, 1st Regular Session.  Please note that the next update of this compilation will not take place until after the conclusion of the 56th Legislature, 2nd Regular Session, which convenes in January 2024.
This online version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is primarily maintained for legislative drafting purposes and reflects the version of law that is effective on January 1st of the year following the most recent legislative session.  The official version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is published by Thomson Reuters.
3-627.Brands for butter; labeling of dairy products; restrictions on use
A. The associate director shall issue to each manufacturer of creamery butter within the state, under such rules as to custody and use as the director may prescribe, a uniform brand bearing a suitable device or motto, and the words "Arizona state brand No._____," which shall be accorded a different number for each manufacturer and each brand. The brand shall be used on the wrapper and on the outside of every package of butter manufactured in the state from cream. The division shall keep a book in which shall be registered the name, location and number of each manufacturer and the brand assigned thereto.
B. Any dairy product sold or offered for sale shall be plainly and legibly labeled upon the container thereof as to contents, grade or class, name of manufacturer and whether produced within or without the state. Cheese shall bear a label on the cheese itself or on the bandage thereof, but package cheese, when dispensed as such, may be labeled on the package.
C. The weight or measure of any dairy product offered or exposed for sale shall be plainly stamped on the package containing the product or on a tag attached thereto.
D. It is unlawful to use or permit the use of the brand prescribed by this section on butter or on a package or wrapper containing butter from cream manufactured out of the state.
© 2024 Arizona State Legislature. All Rights Reserved