Title: 3
Article: 3-625

Content:
Arizona Legislature
The Arizona Revised Statutes have been updated to include the revised sections from the 56th Legislature, 1st Regular Session.  Please note that the next update of this compilation will not take place until after the conclusion of the 56th Legislature, 2nd Regular Session, which convenes in January 2024.
This online version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is primarily maintained for legislative drafting purposes and reflects the version of law that is effective on January 1st of the year following the most recent legislative session.  The official version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is published by Thomson Reuters.
3-625.Frozen desserts; coloring matter; weight; butterfat content; ices and sherbets
A. A frozen dessert may contain, in addition to the food constituent thereof, a harmless coloring matter, flavoring or stabilizer approved by the United States pure food and drug administration, but shall not contain unsound, rancid or spoiled ingredients.
B. Ice cream shall weigh not less than four and one-half pounds per gallon. Plain or extract flavored ice cream shall contain not less than ten per cent butterfat and not less than one and six-tenths pounds total food solids per gallon, nor more than six-tenths per cent by weight of a stabilizer approved by the United States pure food and drug administration. Fruit ice cream shall contain not less than eight per cent butterfat, three per cent by weight of preserved or fresh fruit or the juices thereof and not less than one and six-tenths pounds per gallon by weight of food solids per gallon, and not more than six-tenths per cent by weight of a stabilizer approved by the United States pure food and drug administration. Chocolate ice cream shall contain not less than eight per cent butterfat, one per cent by weight of chocolate or cocoa and one and six-tenths pounds edible solids per gallon, and not more than six-tenths per cent by weight of a stabilizer approved by the United States pure food and drug administration.
C. Frozen custards or French ice cream shall be so labeled, and shall contain not less than ten per cent butterfat by weight. Iced milk shall contain not less than four nor more than eight per cent butterfat by weight. Fruit iced milk and chocolate iced milk shall contain not less than three per cent butterfat by weight. Every sales container of iced milk shall be labeled iced milk and an establishment serving iced milk by the dish, cone or similar manner to the general public shall display in a prominent place and in letters not less than two inches in height, a sign bearing the words "iced milk sold here."
D. Ices, sherbets and similar frozen products in which water is the principal ingredient but which contain a small amount of dairy products as a stabilizer or to improve the texture, shall not be considered a dairy product and shall not be labeled or sold as a dairy product or in imitation thereof.
© 2024 Arizona State Legislature. All Rights Reserved