Title: 3
Article: 3-661

Content:
Arizona Legislature
The Arizona Revised Statutes have been updated to include the revised sections from the 56th Legislature, 1st Regular Session.  Please note that the next update of this compilation will not take place until after the conclusion of the 56th Legislature, 2nd Regular Session, which convenes in January 2024.
This online version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is primarily maintained for legislative drafting purposes and reflects the version of law that is effective on January 1st of the year following the most recent legislative session.  The official version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is published by Thomson Reuters.
3-661.Definitions
In this article, unless the context otherwise requires:
1. "Associate director" means the associate director of the division.
2. "Division" means the animal services division of the Arizona department of agriculture.
3. "Label" means any display of written, printed or graphic matter on the immediate container of any real or trade product, or any such matter affixed to any such product or affixed to or appearing upon a package or wrapping containing any such product. For purposes of this paragraph, "container" shall include the lid, cap, top or any other removable or separable part, as well as the container itself.
4. "Real product" or "real milk product" means a dairy product which contains milk solids-not-fat and which may contain milk fat, but in no event contains:
(a) Any other oils or fats.
(b) Any replacement or substitute for any part of the whole milk. A nutritious, wholesome and healthful additive may be contained in such a product, provided such additive is not a replacement or substitute for any part of the whole milk.
5. "Trade product" means a product which has the appearance, taste, smell, texture or color of, but is not, a real product; which, taken as a whole, bears resemblance to or is in imitation of a real product, or could be mistaken for a real product.
© 2024 Arizona State Legislature. All Rights Reserved