Title: 3
Article: 3-665

Content:
Arizona Legislature
The Arizona Revised Statutes have been updated to include the revised sections from the 56th Legislature, 1st Regular Session.  Please note that the next update of this compilation will not take place until after the conclusion of the 56th Legislature, 2nd Regular Session, which convenes in January 2024.
This online version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is primarily maintained for legislative drafting purposes and reflects the version of law that is effective on January 1st of the year following the most recent legislative session.  The official version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is published by Thomson Reuters.
3-665.Plant licensing
A. It is unlawful to engage in the manufacture of trade products unless a license for the then current calendar year for each separate plant or place used for such business is issued by the associate director pursuant to this section.
B. Each application for a license shall be in such form as the associate director prescribes, and shall be accompanied by a fee of one hundred dollars. Where trade products are manufactured in a milk distributing plant, the fee paid to license such plant shall be applied to reduce the fee prescribed in this subsection.
C. The associate director shall issue to each applicant that satisfies the requirements of this chapter a license which entitles the applicant to manufacture, sell, or distribute trade products for the then current calendar year, unless the license is sooner revoked or suspended.
D. The license shall expire at the end of each calendar year, but shall remain in force during the month of January of the next succeeding year or such part of the month as may be necessary for the renewal of the license.
E. It is unlawful for any person to sell, give away or deliver any trade product which has been produced in a plant that is in an insanitary condition.
F. Grounds for revocation or suspension of such license shall be the manufacture of trade products under unhealthful or insanitary conditions or in any manner which violates the provisions of this chapter.
© 2024 Arizona State Legislature. All Rights Reserved