Title: 3
Article: 3-667

Content:
Arizona Legislature
The Arizona Revised Statutes have been updated to include the revised sections from the 56th Legislature, 1st Regular Session.  Please note that the next update of this compilation will not take place until after the conclusion of the 56th Legislature, 2nd Regular Session, which convenes in January 2024.
This online version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is primarily maintained for legislative drafting purposes and reflects the version of law that is effective on January 1st of the year following the most recent legislative session.  The official version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is published by Thomson Reuters.
3-667.Rules and orders; delegation of duties; regulation of interstate products
A. The director shall adopt rules and orders that are necessary to carry out the purposes of this article, and that he determines are necessary to protect the public health and welfare, and to prevent deception or confusion among consumers. For labeling purposes only, the associate director may divide into categories the various trade and real milk products as being fluid milk, manufactured milk or food-predominantly-milk products. Any duties vested in the associate director by this article and delegable under law may be delegated by him to duly authorized employees or agents.
B. Notwithstanding any other provisions of this article, the director shall by rule make provisions for the transportation into the state and subsequent sale of trade products produced outside the state and labeled in accordance with federal law.
C. Notwithstanding any other provisions of this article, the director may by rule waive any of the provisions of this article as they apply to trade products manufactured for sale and distribution exclusively outside of this state, provided that the rules contain provisions ensuring that the products will not be made available or sold to consumers in this state.
D. All rules shall be adopted by the director only after open hearing at which interested parties shall be permitted to be heard. Any person desiring actual notice of the proposed enactment of rules shall notify the department in writing that he desires such notice. Twenty days prior to the date of a hearing on any proposed rule, the director shall send, by certified mail, a copy of the notice prescribed in section 41-1022 to each such person at the address supplied to the department.
© 2024 Arizona State Legislature. All Rights Reserved