Title: 3
Article: 3-714

Content:
Arizona Legislature
The Arizona Revised Statutes have been updated to include the revised sections from the 56th Legislature, 1st Regular Session.  Please note that the next update of this compilation will not take place until after the conclusion of the 56th Legislature, 2nd Regular Session, which convenes in January 2024.
This online version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is primarily maintained for legislative drafting purposes and reflects the version of law that is effective on January 1st of the year following the most recent legislative session.  The official version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is published by Thomson Reuters.
3-714.Annual licensing; application; fee; display; exceptions
A. No person shall act as a dealer, producer-dealer or manufacturer engaged in the business of buying, candling, grading, peddling, distributing, dealing in or trading in eggs or egg products for resale within this state or engage in the business of breaking eggs for resale within this state without first obtaining a license from the division.
B. Applications for the license shall be made in writing upon forms obtained from the division, accompanied by a license fee as provided by this section.
C. The annual license fee shall be twenty-five dollars for each place or location where the business of the applicant is being or will be conducted. An exclusive retailer selling to consumers only is exempt from the license fee. The license shall be conspicuously displayed and posted at each place or location where the business of the licensee is conducted. Licenses shall expire on February 28 following the issuance thereof. A new license may be obtained for an additional period of one year upon written application and payment of a fee of twenty-five dollars for each place or location where the business is being or will be conducted.
D. Each applicant for a license shall state the name and address of the applicant, the location of each place or location where the business of the applicant is being or is intended to be conducted and that the applicant will in the conduct of the business comply with this article and the rules adopted pursuant to this article.
E. The provisions of this section shall not apply to consumers or persons who are exclusively retailers of egg products.
F. Persons handling eggs in a retail establishment for retail sale only to a consumer, or eggs which have been candled, graded and sold by a producer or a licensed person under this section, having proper refrigeration facilities for handling and storing the eggs at their retail place of business, shall not be subject to the licensing provisions of this section.
G. The licensing provisions of this section shall not apply to retailers complying with section 3-715, subsection A.
© 2024 Arizona State Legislature. All Rights Reserved