Title: 3
Article: 3-717

Content:
Arizona Legislature
The Arizona Revised Statutes have been updated to include the revised sections from the 56th Legislature, 1st Regular Session.  Please note that the next update of this compilation will not take place until after the conclusion of the 56th Legislature, 2nd Regular Session, which convenes in January 2024.
This online version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is primarily maintained for legislative drafting purposes and reflects the version of law that is effective on January 1st of the year following the most recent legislative session.  The official version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is published by Thomson Reuters.
3-717.State egg inspection trust fund
A. All fees provided by this article shall be paid to the department, which shall issue a receipt for such fees. The department shall deposit the full amount in a special fund known as the state egg inspection trust fund.  The trust fund is established for the exclusive purpose of implementing, continuing and supporting the agricultural programs established by this article.
B. The director shall administer the trust fund as trustee. The state treasurer shall accept, separately account for and hold in trust any monies deposited in the state treasury, which are considered to be trust monies as defined in section 35-310 and which shall not be commingled with any other monies in the state treasury except for investment purposes.  On notice from the director, the state treasurer shall invest and divest any trust fund monies deposited in the state treasury pursuant to sections 35-313 and 35-314.03, and monies earned from investment shall be credited to the trust fund.
C. The beneficiaries of the trust are the agricultural programs established by this article.  The trust fund shall be used exclusively for the purposes of this article on the order of the director.
D. Monies deposited in the state egg inspection trust fund are exempt from the provisions of section 35-190 relating to lapsing of appropriations.  Surplus monies, including any unexpended and unencumbered balance at the end of the fiscal year, do not revert to the state general fund.
© 2024 Arizona State Legislature. All Rights Reserved