Title: 3
Article: 3-716

Content:
Arizona Legislature
The Arizona Revised Statutes have been updated to include the revised sections from the 56th Legislature, 1st Regular Session.  Please note that the next update of this compilation will not take place until after the conclusion of the 56th Legislature, 2nd Regular Session, which convenes in January 2024.
This online version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is primarily maintained for legislative drafting purposes and reflects the version of law that is effective on January 1st of the year following the most recent legislative session.  The official version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is published by Thomson Reuters.
3-716.Inspection fees; report and payment by dealers; exception; penalty; collection
A. An inspection fee of not more than three mills per dozen on shell eggs and three mills per pound on egg products shall be paid by a dealer, producer-dealer, manufacturer or producer on all eggs and egg products regardless of origin, sold to a retailer, hotel, hospital, bakery, restaurant, other eating place or consumer for human consumption within this state.  Inspection fees on eggs used for the purpose of breaking, freezing or drying shall be paid by the manufacturer, dealer or distributor if sold or offered for sale to retailers or consumers for human consumption within this state.
B. If it appears that the revenue derived from inspection fees is more than is required for the administration of this article, the director may decrease the inspection fee and at any time thereafter may increase or decrease the inspection fee, but at no time shall it exceed an amount of three mills per dozen on shell eggs or three mills per pound on egg products.
C. All manufacturers, dealers, producer-dealers and producers shall file:
1. A quarterly report with the department showing the name and address of the manufacturer, dealer, producer-dealer or producer.
2. The number of dozen of eggs or pounds of egg products sold or delivered for the period to retail stores, hotels, hospitals, bakeries, restaurants, other eating places or consumers for human consumption within this state.
D. The report shall be accompanied by check or money order covering the inspection fee total of a value equal to the inspection fee in force at that time on all eggs or egg products shown on such report within thirty days following the close of quarterly report periods.
E. The records shall be retained for a period of one year and shall be open at all times to the inspection of the department.
F. Notwithstanding the requirements of this section, twenty-five cases per year of nest run eggs as provided in section 3-715 may be sold by any person to retailers or consumers without being subject to the report and inspection fee as provided by this section.
G. In addition to the inspection fees prescribed by this section, a penalty of ten per cent shall be added for the delinquent filing of any report or the delinquent payment of any inspection fee, and if the report and payment are not made within ten days after notification of delinquency, the penalty shall be twenty-five per cent of the inspection fee. Persons filing a false report shall be penalized fifty per cent of the amount due for inspection fees. The penalties prescribed by this section shall be deposited in the state egg inspection trust fund.
H. Such inspection fees and penalties shall be collected by civil action filed by the county attorney.

© 2024 Arizona State Legislature. All Rights Reserved