Title: 3
Article: 3-719

Content:
Arizona Legislature
The Arizona Revised Statutes have been updated to include the revised sections from the 56th Legislature, 1st Regular Session.  Please note that the next update of this compilation will not take place until after the conclusion of the 56th Legislature, 2nd Regular Session, which convenes in January 2024.
This online version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is primarily maintained for legislative drafting purposes and reflects the version of law that is effective on January 1st of the year following the most recent legislative session.  The official version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is published by Thomson Reuters.
3-719.Reuse of standard cases and other containers; identification of eggs; expiration date markings; exceptions
A. The standard thirty-dozen case and the fifteen-dozen half case as used in commercial practice in the United States may be reused with writing permitted on the sides if the case has been plainly and legibly marked on one outward end in such a position as to clearly and accurately identify the eggs designated thereby, and with the correct designation of size and grade of the eggs therein according to the standards prescribed pursuant to this chapter, together with the name of the producer, dealer, retailer or agent by or for whom the eggs were graded or marked.
B. Designations of size and grade marked upon cases of loose eggs shall be plainly and conspicuously marked in bold-faced type or letters not less than one-half inch in height on one outward end of the case.
C. Each container, carton or subcontainer of chicken eggs shall be marked with the full, correct and unabbreviated designation of size and grade of the eggs therein according to the standards prescribed pursuant to this chapter, together with the name of the producer, dealer, retailer or agent by or for whom the eggs were graded or marked.
D. Designations of size and grade marked upon a carton or container of eggs shall be plainly and conspicuously marked in bold-faced type or letters not less than one-fourth inch in height on the outward top face of each carton or container holding less than fifteen dozen eggs, and not less than one-half inch in height on one outward side of any other container holding fifteen dozen or more eggs.
E. Cases, half cases, cartons or containers marked grade AA or grade A shall be marked with an expiration date. Months shall be abbreviated Jan, Feb, Mar, Apr, May, Jun, Jul, Aug, Sep, Oct, Nov or Dec.
F. The expiration date marked on a case, half case or container holding fifteen dozen eggs or more shall be plainly and conspicuously marked in bold-faced type not less than three-eighths inch in height on one outward end of the case or container.
G. The expiration date marked on a carton or container holding less than fifteen dozen eggs shall be plainly and conspicuously marked in bold-faced type not less than one-eighth inch in height on one end of the outward top face of each carton and on one outward end or the outward top of each container.
H. Only one description of the size and grade of eggs and one expiration date shall appear upon any carton, container, subcontainer or case of eggs.
I. Designations of size and grade markings on an advertisement, sign, placard, carton, container, subcontainer or case shall correspond with the designation of size and grade marking on the invoice furnished with the sale of the eggs.
© 2024 Arizona State Legislature. All Rights Reserved