Title: 3
Article: 3-718

Content:
Arizona Legislature
The Arizona Revised Statutes have been updated to include the revised sections from the 56th Legislature, 1st Regular Session.  Please note that the next update of this compilation will not take place until after the conclusion of the 56th Legislature, 2nd Regular Session, which convenes in January 2024.
This online version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is primarily maintained for legislative drafting purposes and reflects the version of law that is effective on January 1st of the year following the most recent legislative session.  The official version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is published by Thomson Reuters.
3-718.Sale of eggs; invoice; deterioration of eggs below grade; exceptions
A. Every person selling eggs or egg products to a producer-dealer, dealer, retailer, manufacturer, hotel, hospital, bakery, restaurant or other eating place, or consumer shall furnish an invoice showing the date of sale, the exact quantity of eggs or egg products, size and grade of the eggs, or nest run, according to the standards prescribed pursuant to this chapter, together with the name and address of the person buying and selling the eggs. An egg purchase ticket given by a dealer or producer-dealer to a producer when the producer sells nest run eggs to such dealer or producer-dealer complies with this section. A copy of the invoice or egg purchase ticket shall be kept on file by the seller and the buyer at their respective places of business for a period of thirty days and shall be open at all reasonable times to inspection by an inspector.
B. A person having eggs marked in accordance with the invoice who keeps the eggs for such time after they are purchased as to cause them to deteriorate to a lower grade or size and then offers or exposes them for sale under the mark of the invoice grade or size violates this article.
C. No invoice shall be required on eggs when sales are made by the producer from eggs produced on the producer's premises and sold direct to the consumer.
D. No invoice shall be required on eggs sold or delivered by a retailer when selling eggs from the retailer’s establishment to consumers.

© 2024 Arizona State Legislature. All Rights Reserved