Title: 3
Article: 3-726

Content:
Arizona Legislature
The Arizona Revised Statutes have been updated to include the revised sections from the 56th Legislature, 1st Regular Session.  Please note that the next update of this compilation will not take place until after the conclusion of the 56th Legislature, 2nd Regular Session, which convenes in January 2024.
This online version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is primarily maintained for legislative drafting purposes and reflects the version of law that is effective on January 1st of the year following the most recent legislative session.  The official version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is published by Thomson Reuters.
3-726.Imported egg products; permit; inspection; certificate; containers; fee
A. A person shall not sell for human consumption in this state egg products imported into the state from without the United States until they have been inspected by an inspector and are found to be fit for human consumption and unless a permit authorizing the sale has been issued. An inspector shall cause an inspection of the egg products to be made, and if they are found to be fit for human consumption, the division shall issue to the importer or consignee a permit authorizing the sale thereof, together with certificates of inspection equal in number to the containers in which the egg products are packed.
B. The certificates of inspection shall be in the form the division deems appropriate and shall have printed upon a white background in plain black letters not less than one inch high, frozen eggs, liquid eggs, dried eggs or egg products imported into the state of Arizona from without the United States, and inspected (inserting the date) by the Arizona department of agriculture. The certificates shall be printed upon gummed, adhesive labels, and the importer or consignee shall affix or cause to be affixed one certificate to each container so that the inspection certificate shall be plainly visible to the buyer.
C. The egg products referred to in subsection A imported into the state from without the United States shall be sold only in or from the original container. No certificate of inspection shall be removed from the container or defaced, and no container upon which an inspection certificate has been affixed shall be used as a receptacle for egg products imported into the state from without the United States which have not been inspected and pronounced fit for human consumption.
D. The importer or consignee shall pay in advance for the inspection. The inspection fee for each certificate shall be fixed by the director in accordance with the fees and charges of the United States department of agriculture.
© 2024 Arizona State Legislature. All Rights Reserved