Title: 3
Article: 3-909

Content:
Arizona Legislature
The Arizona Revised Statutes have been updated to include the revised sections from the 56th Legislature, 1st Regular Session.  Please note that the next update of this compilation will not take place until after the conclusion of the 56th Legislature, 2nd Regular Session, which convenes in January 2024.
This online version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is primarily maintained for legislative drafting purposes and reflects the version of law that is effective on January 1st of the year following the most recent legislative session.  The official version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is published by Thomson Reuters.
3-909.Shipment of plants; exhibition of permit and certificate of inspection to carrier; sale of highly safeguarded plants
A. No person or common carrier may transport a plant, or any part of a plant, belonging to the protected group, nor receive or possess a protected native plant for transportation within or without this state, except for manufactured wood articles, unless the person offering the plant for shipment exhibits to the person or common carrier a valid written permit for the transportation of the plant or part of a plant and has securely and properly attached a valid required native plant tag and seal to the plant. If for transport without the state, the plant shall also bear a certificate of inspection by the department.  All protected native plant species or varieties, not grown in Arizona and imported into this state, shall be transported directly to a department field office at which a movement permit and seals must be purchased before proceeding to the final destination.
B. Plants of the protected group that are shipped into this state shall be accompanied by all permits, tags and seals required by the exporting state or country.
C. It is unlawful for a person to commercially sell or offer for commercial sale in interstate commerce any highly safeguarded native plant or in the course of interstate commercial activity to deliver, receive, carry, transport or ship by any means any such plant in furtherance of a commercial sale or offer for commercial sale.
© 2024 Arizona State Legislature. All Rights Reserved