Title: 3
Article: 3-934

Content:
Arizona Legislature
The Arizona Revised Statutes have been updated to include the revised sections from the 56th Legislature, 1st Regular Session.  Please note that the next update of this compilation will not take place until after the conclusion of the 56th Legislature, 2nd Regular Session, which convenes in January 2024.
This online version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is primarily maintained for legislative drafting purposes and reflects the version of law that is effective on January 1st of the year following the most recent legislative session.  The official version of the Arizona Revised Statutes is published by Thomson Reuters.
3-934.Injunction; violation; civil penalty
A. The department's legal counsel, on request of a private party or the director, or the county attorney of the county in which a violation of this chapter or any rule or order issued or adopted under section 3-912 or 3-914 is alleged to have occurred may bring an action in the county requesting the court to enjoin or otherwise restrain the defendant from further violations of this chapter or the rule or order. If the alleged violation occurs through the actions of a state agency, the agency may be made a party defendant.
B. A person who violates an order or injunction issued by a court of competent jurisdiction pursuant to this section, in addition to any other penalty or remedy for contempt of court, shall forfeit and pay to this state a civil penalty of not more than ten thousand dollars for each violation as the court deems just and proper. For purposes of this section, the superior court in the county issuing any order or injunction retains jurisdiction. The attorney general or legal counsel for the department acting in the name of this state may petition for recovery of civil penalties pursuant to this section. All civil penalties assessed pursuant to this section shall be deposited, pursuant to sections 35-146 and 35-147, in the state general fund.
© 2024 Arizona State Legislature. All Rights Reserved